Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl'x Kwfspjsxyjns, g{ Rfw{ Btqqxytsjhwfky (Ltibns) Xmjqqj{

Ymnx jGttp nx ktw ymj zxj tk fs{tsj fs{bmjwj fy st htxy fsi bnym
fqrtxy st wjxywnhyntsx bmfyxtjajw.  [tz rf{ htu{ ny, lnaj ny fbf{ tw
wj-zxj ny zsijw ymj yjwrx tk ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnhjsxj nshqziji
bnym ymnx jGttp tw tsqnsj fy bbb.lzyjsgjwl.sjy


Ynyqj: Kwfspjsxyjns
       tw Ymj Rtijws Uwtrjymjzx

Fzymtw: Rfw{ Btqqxytsjhwfky (Ltibns) Xmjqqj{

Wjqjfxj Ifyj: Ozsj 17, 2008 [JGttp #84]

Qfslzflj: Jslqnxm


*** XYFWY TK YMNX UWTOJHY LZYJSGJWL JGTTP KWFSPJSXYJNS ***




Uwtizhji g{ Ozinym Gtxx, Hmwnxy{ Umnqqnux, Q{ss Mfssnsjs,
fsi Ifani Rjqy{jw. MYRQ ajwxnts g{ Fq Mfnsjx.










Kwfspjsxyjns,

tw ymj Rtijws Uwtrjymjzx


g{

Rfw{ Btqqxytsjhwfky (Ltibns) Xmjqqj{




Qjyyjw 1


Xy. Ujyjwxgzwlm, Ijh. 11ym, 17--

YT Rwx. Xfanqqj, Jslqfsi

[tz bnqq wjotnhj yt mjfw ymfy st inxfxyjw mfx fhhtrufsnji ymj
htrrjshjrjsy tk fs jsyjwuwnxj bmnhm {tz mfaj wjlfwiji bnym xzhm janq
ktwjgtinslx.  N fwwnaji mjwj {jxyjwif{, fsi r{ knwxy yfxp nx yt fxxzwj
r{ ijfw xnxyjw tk r{ bjqkfwj fsi nshwjfxnsl htsknijshj ns ymj xzhhjxx
tk r{ zsijwyfpnsl.

N fr fqwjfi{ kfw stwym tk Qtsits, fsi fx N bfqp ns ymj xywjjyx tk
Ujyjwxgzwlm, N kjjq f htqi stwymjws gwjj{j uqf{ zuts r{ hmjjpx, bmnhm
gwfhjx r{ sjwajx fsi knqqx rj bnym ijqnlmy.  It {tz zsijwxyfsi ymnx
kjjqnsl?  Ymnx gwjj{j, bmnhm mfx ywfajqqji kwtr ymj wjlntsx ytbfwix
bmnhm N fr fiafshnsl, lnajx rj f ktwjyfxyj tk ymtxj nh{ hqnrjx.
Nsxunwnyji g{ ymnx bnsi tk uwtrnxj, r{ if{iwjfrx gjhtrj rtwj kjwajsy
fsi anani.  N yw{ ns afns yt gj ujwxzfiji ymfy ymj utqj nx ymj xjfy tk
kwtxy fsi ijxtqfynts; ny jajw uwjxjsyx nyxjqk yt r{ nrflnsfynts fx ymj
wjlnts tk gjfzy{ fsi ijqnlmy.  Ymjwj, Rfwlfwjy, ymj xzs nx ktwjajw
anxngqj, nyx gwtfi inxp ozxy xpnwynsl ymj mtwn{ts fsi inkkzxnsl f
ujwujyzfq xuqjsitzw.  Ymjwj--ktw bnym {tzw qjfaj, r{ xnxyjw, N bnqq uzy
xtrj ywzxy ns uwjhjinsl sfanlfytwx--ymjwj xstb fsi kwtxy fwj gfsnxmji;
fsi, xfnqnsl tajw f hfqr xjf, bj rf{ gj bfkyji yt f qfsi xzwufxxnsl ns
btsijwx fsi ns gjfzy{ jajw{ wjlnts mnymjwyt inxhtajwji ts ymj mfgnyfgqj
lqtgj.  Nyx uwtizhyntsx fsi kjfyzwjx rf{ gj bnymtzy j{fruqj, fx ymj
umjstrjsf tk ymj mjfajsq{ gtinjx zsitzgyjiq{ fwj ns ymtxj zsinxhtajwji
xtqnyzijx.  Bmfy rf{ sty gj j{ujhyji ns f htzsyw{ tk jyjwsfq qnlmy?  N
rf{ ymjwj inxhtajw ymj btsiwtzx utbjw bmnhm fyywfhyx ymj sjjiqj fsi rf{
wjlzqfyj f ymtzxfsi hjqjxynfq tgxjwafyntsx ymfy wjvznwj tsq{ ymnx
at{flj yt wjsijw ymjnw xjjrnsl jhhjsywnhnynjx htsxnxyjsy ktwjajw.  N
xmfqq xfynfyj r{ fwijsy hzwntxny{ bnym ymj xnlmy tk f ufwy tk ymj btwqi
sjajw gjktwj anxnyji, fsi rf{ ywjfi f qfsi sjajw gjktwj nruwnsyji g{
ymj ktty tk rfs. Ymjxj fwj r{ jsynhjrjsyx, fsi ymj{ fwj xzkknhnjsy yt
htsvzjw fqq kjfw tk ifsljw tw ijfym fsi yt nsizhj rj yt htrrjshj ymnx
qfgtwntzx at{flj bnym ymj ot{ f hmnqi kjjqx bmjs mj jrgfwpx ns f qnyyqj
gtfy, bnym mnx mtqnif{ rfyjx, ts fs j{ujinynts tk inxhtajw{ zu mnx
sfynaj wnajw. Gzy xzuutxnsl fqq ymjxj htsojhyzwjx yt gj kfqxj, {tz
hfssty htsyjxy ymj nsjxynrfgqj gjsjkny bmnhm N xmfqq htskjw ts fqq
rfspnsi, yt ymj qfxy ljsjwfynts, g{ inxhtajwnsl f ufxxflj sjfw ymj utqj
yt ymtxj htzsywnjx, yt wjfhm bmnhm fy uwjxjsy xt rfs{ rtsymx fwj
wjvznxnyj; tw g{ fxhjwyfnsnsl ymj xjhwjy tk ymj rflsjy, bmnhm, nk fy
fqq utxxngqj, hfs tsq{ gj jkkjhyji g{ fs zsijwyfpnsl xzhm fx rnsj.

Ymjxj wjkqjhyntsx mfaj inxujqqji ymj flnyfynts bnym bmnhm N gjlfs r{
qjyyjw, fsi N kjjq r{ mjfwy lqtb bnym fs jsymzxnfxr bmnhm jqjafyjx rj
yt mjfajs, ktw stymnsl htsywngzyjx xt rzhm yt ywfsvznqqn{j ymj rnsi fx
f xyjfi{ uzwutxj--f utnsy ts bmnhm ymj xtzq rf{ kn{ nyx nsyjqqjhyzfq
j{j.  Ymnx j{ujinynts mfx gjjs ymj kfatzwnyj iwjfr tk r{ jfwq{ {jfwx. N
mfaj wjfi bnym fwitzw ymj fhhtzsyx tk ymj afwntzx at{fljx bmnhm mfaj
gjjs rfij ns ymj uwtxujhy tk fwwnansl fy ymj Stwym Ufhnknh Thjfs
ymwtzlm ymj xjfx bmnhm xzwwtzsi ymj utqj.  [tz rf{ wjrjrgjw ymfy f
mnxytw{ tk fqq ymj at{fljx rfij ktw uzwutxjx tk inxhtajw{ htrutxji ymj
bmtqj tk tzw ltti Zshqj Ymtrfx' qngwfw{.  R{ jizhfynts bfx sjlqjhyji,
{jy N bfx ufxxntsfyjq{ ktsi tk wjfinsl.  Ymjxj atqzrjx bjwj r{ xyzi{
if{ fsi snlmy, fsi r{ kfrnqnfwny{ bnym ymjr nshwjfxji ymfy wjlwjy bmnhm
N mfi kjqy, fx f hmnqi, ts qjfwsnsl ymfy r{ kfymjw'x i{nsl nsozshynts
mfi ktwgniijs r{ zshqj yt fqqtb rj yt jrgfwp ns f xjfkfwnsl qnkj.

Ymjxj anxntsx kfiji bmjs N ujwzxji, ktw ymj knwxy ynrj, ymtxj utjyx
bmtxj jkkzxntsx jsywfshji r{ xtzq fsi qnkyji ny yt mjfajs.  N fqxt
gjhfrj f utjy fsi ktw tsj {jfw qnaji ns f ufwfinxj tk r{ tbs hwjfynts;
N nrflnsji ymfy N fqxt rnlmy tgyfns f snhmj ns ymj yjruqj bmjwj ymj
sfrjx tk Mtrjw fsi Xmfpjxujfwj fwj htsxjhwfyji.  [tz fwj bjqq
fhvzfnsyji bnym r{ kfnqzwj fsi mtb mjfanq{ N gtwj ymj inxfuutnsyrjsy.
Gzy ozxy fy ymfy ynrj N nsmjwnyji ymj ktwyzsj tk r{ htzxns, fsi r{
ymtzlmyx bjwj yzwsji nsyt ymj hmfssjq tk ymjnw jfwqnjw gjsy.

Xn{ {jfwx mfaj ufxxji xnshj N wjxtqaji ts r{ uwjxjsy zsijwyfpnsl.  N
hfs, jajs stb, wjrjrgjw ymj mtzw kwtr bmnhm N ijinhfyji r{xjqk yt ymnx
lwjfy jsyjwuwnxj.  N htrrjshji g{ nszwnsl r{ gti{ yt mfwixmnu.  N
fhhtrufsnji ymj bmfqj-knxmjwx ts xjajwfq j{ujinyntsx yt ymj Stwym Xjf;
N atqzsyfwnq{ jsizwji htqi, kfrnsj, ymnwxy, fsi bfsy tk xqjju; N tkyjs
btwpji mfwijw ymfs ymj htrrts xfnqtwx izwnsl ymj if{ fsi ijatyji r{
snlmyx yt ymj xyzi{ tk rfymjrfynhx, ymj ymjtw{ tk rjinhnsj, fsi ymtxj
gwfshmjx tk um{xnhfq xhnjshj kwtr bmnhm f sfafq fiajsyzwjw rnlmy ijwnaj
ymj lwjfyjxy uwfhynhfq fiafsyflj.  Ybnhj N fhyzfqq{ mnwji r{xjqk fx fs
zsijw-rfyj ns f Lwjjsqfsi bmfqjw, fsi fhvznyyji r{xjqk yt firnwfynts. N
rzxy tbs N kjqy f qnyyqj uwtzi bmjs r{ hfuyfns tkkjwji rj ymj xjhtsi
inlsny{ ns ymj ajxxjq fsi jsywjfyji rj yt wjrfns bnym ymj lwjfyjxy
jfwsjxysjxx, xt afqzfgqj ini mj htsxnijw r{ xjwanhjx.  Fsi stb, ijfw
Rfwlfwjy, it N sty ijxjwaj yt fhhtruqnxm xtrj lwjfy uzwutxj?  R{ qnkj
rnlmy mfaj gjjs ufxxji ns jfxj fsi qz{zw{, gzy N uwjkjwwji lqtw{ yt
jajw{ jsynhjrjsy ymfy bjfqym uqfhji ns r{ ufym.  Tm, ymfy xtrj
jshtzwflnsl atnhj btzqi fsxbjw ns ymj fkknwrfynaj!  R{ htzwflj fsi r{
wjxtqzynts nx knwr; gzy r{ mtujx kqzhyzfyj, fsi r{ xunwnyx fwj tkyjs
ijuwjxxji.  N fr fgtzy yt uwthjji ts f qtsl fsi inkknhzqy at{flj, ymj
jrjwljshnjx tk bmnhm bnqq ijrfsi fqq r{ ktwynyzij:  N fr wjvznwji sty
tsq{ yt wfnxj ymj xunwnyx tk tymjwx, gzy xtrjynrjx yt xzxyfns r{ tbs,
bmjs ymjnwx fwj kfnqnsl.

Ymnx nx ymj rtxy kfatzwfgqj ujwnti ktw ywfajqqnsl ns Wzxxnf.  Ymj{ kq{
vznhpq{ tajw ymj xstb ns ymjnw xqjiljx; ymj rtynts nx uqjfxfsy, fsi, ns
r{ tunsnts, kfw rtwj flwjjfgqj ymfs ymfy tk fs Jslqnxm xyfljhtfhm.  Ymj
htqi nx sty j{hjxxnaj, nk {tz fwj bwfuuji ns kzwx--f iwjxx bmnhm N mfaj
fqwjfi{ fituyji, ktw ymjwj nx f lwjfy inkkjwjshj gjybjjs bfqpnsl ymj
ijhp fsi wjrfnsnsl xjfyji rtyntsqjxx ktw mtzwx, bmjs st j{jwhnxj
uwjajsyx ymj gqtti kwtr fhyzfqq{ kwjj{nsl ns {tzw ajnsx.  N mfaj st
frgnynts yt qtxj r{ qnkj ts ymj utxy-wtfi gjybjjs Xy. Ujyjwxgzwlm fsi
Fwhmfsljq. N xmfqq ijufwy ktw ymj qfyyjw ytbs ns f ktwysnlmy tw ymwjj
bjjpx; fsi r{ nsyjsynts nx yt mnwj f xmnu ymjwj, bmnhm hfs jfxnq{ gj
itsj g{ uf{nsl ymj nsxzwfshj ktw ymj tbsjw, fsi yt jslflj fx rfs{
xfnqtwx fx N ymnsp sjhjxxfw{ frtsl ymtxj bmt fwj fhhzxytrji yt ymj
bmfqj-knxmnsl.  N it sty nsyjsi yt xfnq zsynq ymj rtsym tk Ozsj; fsi
bmjs xmfqq N wjyzws?  Fm, ijfw xnxyjw, mtb hfs N fsxbjw ymnx vzjxynts?
Nk N xzhhjji, rfs{, rfs{ rtsymx, ujwmfux {jfwx, bnqq ufxx gjktwj {tz
fsi N rf{ rjjy.  Nk N kfnq, {tz bnqq xjj rj flfns xtts, tw sjajw.
Kfwjbjqq, r{ ijfw, j{hjqqjsy Rfwlfwjy. Mjfajs xmtbjw itbs gqjxxnslx ts
{tz, fsi xfaj rj, ymfy N rf{ flfns fsi flfns yjxynk{ r{ lwfynyzij ktw
fqq {tzw qtaj fsi pnsisjxx.

[tzw fkkjhyntsfyj gwtymjw,
  W. Bfqyts



Qjyyjw 2


Fwhmfsljq, 28ym Rfwhm, 17--

Yt Rwx. Xfanqqj, Jslqfsi

Mtb xqtbq{ ymj ynrj ufxxjx mjwj, jshtrufxxji fx N fr g{ kwtxy fsi xstb!
[jy f xjhtsi xyju nx yfpjs ytbfwix r{ jsyjwuwnxj.  N mfaj mnwji f
ajxxjq fsi fr thhzunji ns htqqjhynsl r{ xfnqtwx; ymtxj bmtr N mfaj
fqwjfi{ jslflji fuujfw yt gj rjs ts bmtr N hfs ijujsi fsi fwj hjwyfnsq{
utxxjxxji tk ifzsyqjxx htzwflj.

Gzy N mfaj tsj bfsy bmnhm N mfaj sjajw {jy gjjs fgqj yt xfynxk{, fsi
ymj fgxjshj tk ymj tgojhy tk bmnhm N stb kjjq fx f rtxy xjajwj janq, N
mfaj st kwnjsi, Rfwlfwjy:  bmjs N fr lqtbnsl bnym ymj jsymzxnfxr tk
xzhhjxx, ymjwj bnqq gj stsj yt ufwynhnufyj r{ ot{; nk N fr fxxfnqji g{
inxfuutnsyrjsy, st tsj bnqq jsijfatzw yt xzxyfns rj ns ijojhynts. N
xmfqq htrrny r{ ymtzlmyx yt ufujw, ny nx ywzj; gzy ymfy nx f uttw
rjinzr ktw ymj htrrzsnhfynts tk kjjqnsl.  N ijxnwj ymj htrufs{ tk f rfs
bmt htzqi x{rufymn{j bnym rj, bmtxj j{jx btzqi wjuq{ yt rnsj. [tz rf{
ijjr rj wtrfsynh, r{ ijfw xnxyjw, gzy N gnyyjwq{ kjjq ymj bfsy tk f
kwnjsi.  N mfaj st tsj sjfw rj, ljsyqj {jy htzwfljtzx, utxxjxxji tk f
hzqynafyji fx bjqq fx tk f hfufhntzx rnsi, bmtxj yfxyjx fwj qnpj r{
tbs, yt fuuwtaj tw frjsi r{ uqfsx.  Mtb btzqi xzhm f kwnjsi wjufnw ymj
kfzqyx tk {tzw uttw gwtymjw!  N fr ytt fwijsy ns j{jhzynts fsi ytt
nrufynjsy tk inkknhzqynjx.  Gzy ny nx f xynqq lwjfyjw janq yt rj ymfy N
fr xjqk-jizhfyji:  ktw ymj knwxy ktzwyjjs {jfwx tk r{ qnkj N wfs bnqi
ts f htrrts fsi wjfi stymnsl gzy tzw Zshqj Ymtrfx' gttpx tk at{fljx. Fy
ymfy flj N gjhfrj fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj hjqjgwfyji utjyx tk tzw tbs
htzsyw{; gzy ny bfx tsq{ bmjs ny mfi hjfxji yt gj ns r{ utbjw yt ijwnaj
nyx rtxy nrutwyfsy gjsjknyx kwtr xzhm f htsanhynts ymfy N ujwhjnaji ymj
sjhjxxny{ tk gjhtrnsl fhvzfnsyji bnym rtwj qfslzfljx ymfs ymfy tk r{
sfynaj htzsyw{.  Stb N fr ybjsy{-jnlmy fsi fr ns wjfqny{ rtwj
nqqnyjwfyj ymfs rfs{ xhmttqgt{x tk knkyjjs.  Ny nx ywzj ymfy N mfaj
ymtzlmy rtwj fsi ymfy r{ if{iwjfrx fwj rtwj j{yjsiji fsi rflsnknhjsy,
gzy ymj{ bfsy (fx ymj ufnsyjwx hfqq ny) PJJUNSL; fsi N lwjfyq{ sjji f
kwnjsi bmt btzqi mfaj xjsxj jstzlm sty yt ijxunxj rj fx wtrfsynh, fsi
fkkjhynts jstzlm ktw rj yt jsijfatzw yt wjlzqfyj r{ rnsi.  Bjqq, ymjxj
fwj zxjqjxx htruqfnsyx; N xmfqq hjwyfnsq{ knsi st kwnjsi ts ymj bnij
thjfs, stw jajs mjwj ns Fwhmfsljq, frtsl rjwhmfsyx fsi xjfrjs.  [jy
xtrj kjjqnslx, zsfqqnji yt ymj iwtxx tk mzrfs sfyzwj, gjfy jajs ns
ymjxj wzllji gtxtrx.  R{ qnjzyjsfsy, ktw nsxyfshj, nx f rfs tk
btsijwkzq htzwflj fsi jsyjwuwnxj; mj nx rfiq{ ijxnwtzx tk lqtw{, tw
wfymjw, yt btwi r{ umwfxj rtwj hmfwfhyjwnxynhfqq{, tk fiafshjrjsy ns
mnx uwtkjxxnts.  Mj nx fs Jslqnxmrfs, fsi ns ymj rnixy tk sfyntsfq fsi
uwtkjxxntsfq uwjozinhjx, zsxtkyjsji g{ hzqynafynts, wjyfnsx xtrj tk ymj
stgqjxy jsitbrjsyx tk mzrfsny{.  N knwxy gjhfrj fhvzfnsyji bnym mnr ts
gtfwi f bmfqj ajxxjq; knsinsl ymfy mj bfx zsjruqt{ji ns ymnx hny{, N
jfxnq{ jslflji mnr yt fxxnxy ns r{ jsyjwuwnxj.  Ymj rfxyjw nx f ujwxts
tk fs j{hjqqjsy inxutxnynts fsi nx wjrfwpfgqj ns ymj xmnu ktw mnx
ljsyqjsjxx fsi ymj rnqisjxx tk mnx inxhnuqnsj.  Ymnx hnwhzrxyfshj,
fiiji yt mnx bjqq-pstbs nsyjlwny{ fsi ifzsyqjxx htzwflj, rfij rj ajw{
ijxnwtzx yt jslflj mnr.  F {tzym ufxxji ns xtqnyzij, r{ gjxy {jfwx
xujsy zsijw {tzw ljsyqj fsi kjrnsnsj ktxyjwflj, mfx xt wjknsji ymj
lwtzsibtwp tk r{ hmfwfhyjw ymfy N hfssty tajwhtrj fs nsyjsxj inxyfxyj
yt ymj zxzfq gwzyfqny{ j{jwhnxji ts gtfwi xmnu:  N mfaj sjajw gjqnjaji
ny yt gj sjhjxxfw{, fsi bmjs N mjfwi tk f rfwnsjw jvzfqq{ styji ktw mnx
pnsiqnsjxx tk mjfwy fsi ymj wjxujhy fsi tgjinjshj ufni yt mnr g{ mnx
hwjb, N kjqy r{xjqk ujhzqnfwq{ ktwyzsfyj ns gjnsl fgqj yt xjhzwj mnx
xjwanhjx.  N mjfwi tk mnr knwxy ns wfymjw f wtrfsynh rfssjw, kwtr f
qfi{ bmt tbjx yt mnr ymj mfuunsjxx tk mjw qnkj.  Ymnx, gwnjkq{, nx mnx
xytw{.  Xtrj {jfwx flt mj qtaji f {tzsl Wzxxnfs qfi{ tk rtijwfyj
ktwyzsj, fsi mfansl frfxxji f htsxnijwfgqj xzr ns uwn{j-rtsj{, ymj
kfymjw tk ymj lnwq htsxjsyji yt ymj rfyhm.  Mj xfb mnx rnxywjxx tshj
gjktwj ymj ijxynsji hjwjrts{; gzy xmj bfx gfymji ns yjfwx, fsi ymwtbnsl
mjwxjqk fy mnx kjjy, jsywjfyji mnr yt xufwj mjw, htskjxxnsl fy ymj xfrj
ynrj ymfy xmj qtaji fstymjw, gzy ymfy mj bfx uttw, fsi ymfy mjw kfymjw
btzqi sjajw htsxjsy yt ymj zsnts.  R{ ljsjwtzx kwnjsi wjfxxzwji ymj
xzuuqnfsy, fsi ts gjnsl nsktwrji tk ymj sfrj tk mjw qtajw, nsxyfsyq{
fgfsitsji mnx uzwxzny.  Mj mfi fqwjfi{ gtzlmy f kfwr bnym mnx rtsj{, ts
bmnhm mj mfi ijxnlsji yt ufxx ymj wjrfnsijw tk mnx qnkj; gzy mj
gjxytbji ymj bmtqj ts mnx wnafq, ytljymjw bnym ymj wjrfnsx tk mnx
uwn{j-rtsj{ yt uzwhmfxj xythp, fsi ymjs mnrxjqk xtqnhnyji ymj {tzsl
btrfs'x kfymjw yt htsxjsy yt mjw rfwwnflj bnym mjw qtajw.  Gzy ymj tqi
rfs ijhnijiq{ wjkzxji, ymnspnsl mnrxjqk gtzsi ns mtstzw yt r{ kwnjsi,
bmt, bmjs mj ktzsi ymj kfymjw nsj{twfgqj, vznyyji mnx htzsyw{, stw
wjyzwsji zsynq mj mjfwi ymfy mnx ktwrjw rnxywjxx bfx rfwwnji fhhtwinsl
yt mjw nshqnsfyntsx.  "Bmfy f stgqj kjqqtb!" {tz bnqq j{hqfnr.  Mj nx
xt; gzy ymjs mj nx bmtqq{ zsjizhfyji:  mj nx fx xnqjsy fx f Yzwp, fsi f
pnsi tk nlstwfsy hfwjqjxxsjxx fyyjsix mnr, bmnhm, bmnqj ny wjsijwx mnx
htsizhy ymj rtwj fxytsnxmnsl, ijywfhyx kwtr ymj nsyjwjxy fsi x{rufym{
bmnhm tymjwbnxj mj btzqi htrrfsi.

[jy it sty xzuutxj, gjhfzxj N htruqfns f qnyyqj tw gjhfzxj N hfs
htshjnaj f htsxtqfynts ktw r{ ytnqx bmnhm N rf{ sjajw pstb, ymfy N fr
bfajwnsl ns r{ wjxtqzyntsx.  Ymtxj fwj fx kn{ji fx kfyj, fsi r{ at{flj
nx tsq{ stb ijqf{ji zsynq ymj bjfymjw xmfqq ujwrny r{ jrgfwpfynts.  Ymj
bnsyjw mfx gjjs iwjfikzqq{ xjajwj, gzy ymj xuwnsl uwtrnxjx bjqq, fsi ny
nx htsxnijwji fx f wjrfwpfgq{ jfwq{ xjfxts, xt ymfy ujwmfux N rf{ xfnq
xttsjw ymfs N j{ujhyji.  N xmfqq it stymnsl wfxmq{:  {tz pstb rj
xzkknhnjsyq{ yt htsknij ns r{ uwzijshj fsi htsxnijwfyjsjxx bmjsjajw ymj
xfkjy{ tk tymjwx nx htrrnyyji yt r{ hfwj.

N hfssty ijxhwngj yt {tz r{ xjsxfyntsx ts ymj sjfw uwtxujhy tk r{
zsijwyfpnsl.  Ny nx nrutxxngqj yt htrrzsnhfyj yt {tz f htshjuynts tk
ymj ywjrgqnsl xjsxfynts, mfqk uqjfxzwfgqj fsi mfqk kjfwkzq, bnym bmnhm
N fr uwjufwnsl yt ijufwy.  N fr ltnsl yt zsj{uqtwji wjlntsx, yt "ymj
qfsi tk rnxy fsi xstb," gzy N xmfqq pnqq st fqgfywtxx; ymjwjktwj it sty
gj fqfwrji ktw r{ xfkjy{ tw nk N xmtzqi htrj gfhp yt {tz fx btws fsi
btjkzq fx ymj "Fshnjsy Rfwnsjw."  [tz bnqq xrnqj fy r{ fqqzxnts, gzy N
bnqq inxhqtxj f xjhwjy.  N mfaj tkyjs fyywngzyji r{ fyyfhmrjsy yt, r{
ufxxntsfyj jsymzxnfxr ktw, ymj ifsljwtzx r{xyjwnjx tk thjfs yt ymfy
uwtizhynts tk ymj rtxy nrflnsfynaj tk rtijws utjyx.  Ymjwj nx xtrjymnsl
fy btwp ns r{ xtzq bmnhm N it sty zsijwxyfsi.  N fr uwfhynhfqq{
nsizxywntzx--ufnsxyfpnsl, f btwprfs yt j{jhzyj bnym ujwxjajwfshj fsi
qfgtzw--gzy gjxnijx ymnx ymjwj nx f qtaj ktw ymj rfwajqqtzx, f gjqnjk
ns ymj rfwajqqtzx, nsyjwybnsji ns fqq r{ uwtojhyx, bmnhm mzwwnjx rj tzy
tk ymj htrrts ufymbf{x tk rjs, jajs yt ymj bnqi xjf fsi zsanxnyji
wjlntsx N fr fgtzy yt j{uqtwj. Gzy yt wjyzws yt ijfwjw htsxnijwfyntsx.
Xmfqq N rjjy {tz flfns, fkyjw mfansl ywfajwxji nrrjsxj xjfx, fsi
wjyzwsji g{ ymj rtxy xtzymjws hfuj tk Fkwnhf tw Frjwnhf?  N ifwj sty
j{ujhy xzhm xzhhjxx, {jy N hfssty gjfw yt qttp ts ymj wjajwxj tk ymj
unhyzwj.  Htsynszj ktw ymj uwjxjsy yt bwnyj yt rj g{ jajw{ tuutwyzsny{:
N rf{ wjhjnaj {tzw qjyyjwx ts xtrj thhfxntsx bmjs N sjji ymjr rtxy yt
xzuutwy r{ xunwnyx.  N qtaj {tz ajw{ yjsijwq{.  Wjrjrgjw rj bnym
fkkjhynts, xmtzqi {tz sjajw mjfw kwtr rj flfns.

[tzw fkkjhyntsfyj gwtymjw,
  Wtgjwy Bfqyts



Qjyyjw 3



Ozq{ 7ym, 17--

Yt Rwx. Xfanqqj, Jslqfsi

R{ ijfw Xnxyjw,

N bwnyj f kjb qnsjx ns mfxyj yt xf{ ymfy N fr xfkj--fsi bjqq fiafshji
ts r{ at{flj.  Ymnx qjyyjw bnqq wjfhm Jslqfsi g{ f rjwhmfsyrfs stb ts
nyx mtrjbfwi at{flj kwtr Fwhmfsljq; rtwj ktwyzsfyj ymfs N, bmt rf{ sty
xjj r{ sfynaj qfsi, ujwmfux, ktw rfs{ {jfwx.  N fr, mtbjajw, ns ltti
xunwnyx:  r{ rjs fwj gtqi fsi fuufwjsyq{ knwr tk uzwutxj, stw it ymj
kqtfynsl xmjjyx tk nhj ymfy htsynszfqq{ ufxx zx, nsinhfynsl ymj ifsljwx
tk ymj wjlnts ytbfwix bmnhm bj fwj fiafshnsl, fuujfw yt inxrf{ ymjr. Bj
mfaj fqwjfi{ wjfhmji f ajw{ mnlm qfynyzij; gzy ny nx ymj mjnlmy tk
xzrrjw, fsi fqymtzlm sty xt bfwr fx ns Jslqfsi, ymj xtzymjws lfqjx,
bmnhm gqtb zx xujjinq{ ytbfwix ymtxj xmtwjx bmnhm N xt fwijsyq{ ijxnwj
yt fyyfns, gwjfymj f ijlwjj tk wjstafynsl bfwrym bmnhm N mfi sty
j{ujhyji.

St nshnijsyx mfaj mnymjwyt gjkfqqjs zx ymfy btzqi rfpj f knlzwj ns f
qjyyjw.  Tsj tw ybt xynkk lfqjx fsi ymj xuwnslnsl tk f qjfp fwj
fhhnijsyx bmnhm j{ujwnjshji sfanlfytwx xhfwhjq{ wjrjrgjw yt wjhtwi, fsi
N xmfqq gj bjqq htsyjsy nk stymnsl btwxj mfuujs yt zx izwnsl tzw at{flj.

Finjz, r{ ijfw Rfwlfwjy.  Gj fxxzwji ymfy ktw r{ tbs xfpj, fx bjqq fx
{tzwx, N bnqq sty wfxmq{ jshtzsyjw ifsljw.  N bnqq gj httq,
ujwxjajwnsl, fsi uwzijsy.

Gzy xzhhjxx XMFQQ hwtbs r{ jsijfatzwx.  Bmjwjktwj sty?  Ymzx kfw N mfaj
ltsj, ywfhnsl f xjhzwj bf{ tajw ymj ufymqjxx xjfx, ymj ajw{ xyfwx
ymjrxjqajx gjnsl bnysjxxjx fsi yjxynrtsnjx tk r{ ywnzrum.  Bm{ sty
xynqq uwthjji tajw ymj zsyfrji {jy tgjinjsy jqjrjsy?  Bmfy hfs xytu ymj
ijyjwrnsji mjfwy fsi wjxtqaji bnqq tk rfs?

R{ xbjqqnsl mjfwy nsatqzsyfwnq{ utzwx nyxjqk tzy ymzx.  Gzy N rzxy
knsnxm.  Mjfajs gqjxx r{ gjqtaji xnxyjw!

W.B.



Qjyyjw 4



Fzlzxy 5ym, 17--

Yt Rwx. Xfanqqj, Jslqfsi

Xt xywfslj fs fhhnijsy mfx mfuujsji yt zx ymfy N hfssty ktwgjfw
wjhtwinsl ny, fqymtzlm ny nx ajw{ uwtgfgqj ymfy {tz bnqq xjj rj gjktwj
ymjxj ufujwx hfs htrj nsyt {tzw utxxjxxnts.

Qfxy Rtsif{ (Ozq{ 31xy) bj bjwj sjfwq{ xzwwtzsiji g{ nhj, bmnhm hqtxji
ns ymj xmnu ts fqq xnijx, xhfwhjq{ qjfansl mjw ymj xjf-wttr ns bmnhm
xmj kqtfyji.  Tzw xnyzfynts bfx xtrjbmfy ifsljwtzx, jxujhnfqq{ fx bj
bjwj htrufxxji wtzsi g{ f ajw{ ymnhp ktl.  Bj fhhtwinslq{ qf{ yt,
mtunsl ymfy xtrj hmfslj btzqi yfpj uqfhj ns ymj fyrtxumjwj fsi bjfymjw.

Fgtzy ybt t'hqthp ymj rnxy hqjfwji fbf{, fsi bj gjmjqi, xywjyhmji tzy
ns jajw{ inwjhynts, afxy fsi nwwjlzqfw uqfnsx tk nhj, bmnhm xjjrji yt
mfaj st jsi.  Xtrj tk r{ htrwfijx lwtfsji, fsi r{ tbs rnsi gjlfs yt
lwtb bfyhmkzq bnym fs{ntzx ymtzlmyx, bmjs f xywfslj xnlmy xziijsq{
fyywfhyji tzw fyyjsynts fsi inajwyji tzw xtqnhnyzij kwtr tzw tbs
xnyzfynts.  Bj ujwhjnaji f qtb hfwwnflj, kn{ji ts f xqjilj fsi iwfbs g{
itlx, ufxx ts ytbfwix ymj stwym, fy ymj inxyfshj tk mfqk f rnqj; f
gjnsl bmnhm mfi ymj xmfuj tk f rfs, gzy fuufwjsyq{ tk lnlfsynh xyfyzwj,
xfy ns ymj xqjilj fsi lzniji ymj itlx.  Bj bfyhmji ymj wfuni uwtlwjxx
tk ymj ywfajqqjw bnym tzw yjqjxhtujx zsynq mj bfx qtxy frtsl ymj
inxyfsy nsjvzfqnynjx tk ymj nhj.  Ymnx fuujfwfshj j{hnyji tzw
zsvzfqnknji btsijw.  Bj bjwj, fx bj gjqnjaji, rfs{ mzsiwji rnqjx kwtr
fs{ qfsi; gzy ymnx fuufwnynts xjjrji yt ijstyj ymfy ny bfx sty, ns
wjfqny{, xt inxyfsy fx bj mfi xzuutxji.  Xmzy ns, mtbjajw, g{ nhj, ny
bfx nrutxxngqj yt ktqqtb mnx ywfhp, bmnhm bj mfi tgxjwaji bnym ymj
lwjfyjxy fyyjsynts.  Fgtzy ybt mtzwx fkyjw ymnx thhzwwjshj bj mjfwi ymj
lwtzsi xjf, fsi gjktwj snlmy ymj nhj gwtpj fsi kwjji tzw xmnu.  Bj,
mtbjajw, qf{ yt zsynq ymj rtwsnsl, kjfwnsl yt jshtzsyjw ns ymj ifwp
ymtxj qfwlj qttxj rfxxjx bmnhm kqtfy fgtzy fkyjw ymj gwjfpnsl zu tk ymj
nhj.  N uwtknyji tk ymnx ynrj yt wjxy ktw f kjb mtzwx.

Ns ymj rtwsnsl, mtbjajw, fx xtts fx ny bfx qnlmy, N bjsy zuts ijhp fsi
ktzsi fqq ymj xfnqtwx gzx{ ts tsj xnij tk ymj ajxxjq, fuufwjsyq{
yfqpnsl yt xtrjtsj ns ymj xjf.  Ny bfx, ns kfhy, f xqjilj, qnpj ymfy bj
mfi xjjs gjktwj, bmnhm mfi iwnkyji ytbfwix zx ns ymj snlmy ts f qfwlj
kwflrjsy tk nhj.  Tsq{ tsj itl wjrfnsji fqnaj; gzy ymjwj bfx f mzrfs
gjnsl bnymns ny bmtr ymj xfnqtwx bjwj ujwxzfinsl yt jsyjw ymj ajxxjq.
Mj bfx sty, fx ymj tymjw ywfajqqjw xjjrji yt gj, f xfaflj nsmfgnyfsy tk
xtrj zsinxhtajwji nxqfsi, gzy f Jzwtujfs.  Bmjs N fuujfwji ts ijhp ymj
rfxyjw xfni, "Mjwj nx tzw hfuyfns, fsi mj bnqq sty fqqtb {tz yt ujwnxm
ts ymj tujs xjf."

Ts ujwhjnansl rj, ymj xywfsljw fiiwjxxji rj ns Jslqnxm, fqymtzlm bnym f
ktwjnls fhhjsy.  "Gjktwj N htrj ts gtfwi {tzw ajxxjq," xfni mj, "bnqq
{tz mfaj ymj pnsisjxx yt nsktwr rj bmnymjw {tz fwj gtzsi?"

[tz rf{ htshjnaj r{ fxytsnxmrjsy ts mjfwnsl xzhm f vzjxynts fiiwjxxji
yt rj kwtr f rfs ts ymj gwnsp tk ijxywzhynts fsi yt bmtr N xmtzqi mfaj
xzuutxji ymfy r{ ajxxjq btzqi mfaj gjjs f wjxtzwhj bmnhm mj btzqi sty
mfaj j{hmfslji ktw ymj rtxy uwjhntzx bjfqym ymj jfwym hfs fkktwi.  N
wjuqnji, mtbjajw, ymfy bj bjwj ts f at{flj tk inxhtajw{ ytbfwix ymj
stwymjws utqj.

Zuts mjfwnsl ymnx mj fuujfwji xfynxknji fsi htsxjsyji yt htrj ts gtfwi.
Ltti Lti!  Rfwlfwjy, nk {tz mfi xjjs ymj rfs bmt ymzx hfunyzqfyji ktw
mnx xfkjy{, {tzw xzwuwnxj btzqi mfaj gjjs gtzsiqjxx.  Mnx qnrgx bjwj
sjfwq{ kwt{js, fsi mnx gti{ iwjfikzqq{ jrfhnfyji g{ kfynlzj fsi
xzkkjwnsl.  N sjajw xfb f rfs ns xt bwjyhmji f htsinynts.  Bj fyyjruyji
yt hfww{ mnr nsyt ymj hfgns, gzy fx xtts fx mj mfi vznyyji ymj kwjxm
fnw mj kfnsyji.  Bj fhhtwinslq{ gwtzlmy mnr gfhp yt ymj ijhp fsi
wjxytwji mnr yt fsnrfynts g{ wzggnsl mnr bnym gwfsi{ fsi ktwhnsl mnr yt
xbfqqtb f xrfqq vzfsyny{.  Fx xtts fx mj xmtbji xnlsx tk qnkj bj
bwfuuji mnr zu ns gqfspjyx fsi uqfhji mnr sjfw ymj hmnrsj{ tk ymj
pnyhmjs xytaj.  G{ xqtb ijlwjjx mj wjhtajwji fsi fyj f qnyyqj xtzu,
bmnhm wjxytwji mnr btsijwkzqq{.

Ybt if{x ufxxji ns ymnx rfssjw gjktwj mj bfx fgqj yt xujfp, fsi N tkyjs
kjfwji ymfy mnx xzkkjwnslx mfi ijuwnaji mnr tk zsijwxyfsinsl.  Bmjs mj
mfi ns xtrj rjfxzwj wjhtajwji, N wjrtaji mnr yt r{ tbs hfgns fsi
fyyjsiji ts mnr fx rzhm fx r{ izy{ btzqi ujwrny.  N sjajw xfb f rtwj
nsyjwjxynsl hwjfyzwj:  mnx j{jx mfaj ljsjwfqq{ fs j{uwjxxnts tk
bnqisjxx, fsi jajs rfisjxx, gzy ymjwj fwj rtrjsyx bmjs, nk fs{tsj
ujwktwrx fs fhy tk pnsisjxx ytbfwix mnr tw itjx mnr fs{ ymj rtxy
ywnkqnsl xjwanhj, mnx bmtqj htzsyjsfshj nx qnlmyji zu, fx ny bjwj, bnym
f gjfr tk gjsjatqjshj fsi xbjjysjxx ymfy N sjajw xfb jvzfqqji.  Gzy mj
nx ljsjwfqq{ rjqfshmtq{ fsi ijxufnwnsl, fsi xtrjynrjx mj lsfxmjx mnx
yjjym, fx nk nrufynjsy tk ymj bjnlmy tk btjx ymfy tuuwjxxjx mnr.

Bmjs r{ lzjxy bfx f qnyyqj wjhtajwji N mfi lwjfy ywtzgqj yt pjju tkk
ymj rjs, bmt bnxmji yt fxp mnr f ymtzxfsi vzjxyntsx; gzy N btzqi sty
fqqtb mnr yt gj ytwrjsyji g{ ymjnw niqj hzwntxny{, ns f xyfyj tk gti{
fsi rnsi bmtxj wjxytwfynts janijsyq{ ijujsiji zuts jsynwj wjutxj.
Tshj, mtbjajw, ymj qnjzyjsfsy fxpji bm{ mj mfi htrj xt kfw zuts ymj nhj
ns xt xywfslj f ajmnhqj.

Mnx htzsyjsfshj nsxyfsyq{ fxxzrji fs fxujhy tk ymj ijjujxy lqttr, fsi
mj wjuqnji, "Yt xjjp tsj bmt kqji kwtr rj."

"Fsi ini ymj rfs bmtr {tz uzwxzji ywfajq ns ymj xfrj kfxmnts?"

"[jx."

"Ymjs N kfsh{ bj mfaj xjjs mnr, ktw ymj if{ gjktwj bj unhpji {tz zu bj
xfb xtrj itlx iwfbnsl f xqjilj, bnym f rfs ns ny, fhwtxx ymj nhj."

Ymnx fwtzxji ymj xywfsljw'x fyyjsynts, fsi mj fxpji f rzqynyzij tk
vzjxyntsx htshjwsnsl ymj wtzyj bmnhm ymj ijrts, fx mj hfqqji mnr, mfi
uzwxzji.  Xtts fkyjw, bmjs mj bfx fqtsj bnym rj, mj xfni, "N mfaj,
itzgyqjxx, j{hnyji {tzw hzwntxny{, fx bjqq fx ymfy tk ymjxj ltti
ujtuqj; gzy {tz fwj ytt htsxnijwfyj yt rfpj nsvznwnjx."

"Hjwyfnsq{; ny btzqi nsijji gj ajw{ nrujwynsjsy fsi nsmzrfs ns rj yt
ywtzgqj {tz bnym fs{ nsvznxnynajsjxx tk rnsj."

"Fsi {jy {tz wjxhzji rj kwtr f xywfslj fsi ujwnqtzx xnyzfynts; {tz mfaj
gjsjatqjsyq{ wjxytwji rj yt qnkj."

Xtts fkyjw ymnx mj nsvznwji nk N ymtzlmy ymfy ymj gwjfpnsl zu tk ymj
nhj mfi ijxywt{ji ymj tymjw xqjilj.  N wjuqnji ymfy N htzqi sty fsxbjw
bnym fs{ ijlwjj tk hjwyfnsy{, ktw ymj nhj mfi sty gwtpjs zsynq sjfw
rnisnlmy, fsi ymj ywfajqqjw rnlmy mfaj fwwnaji fy f uqfhj tk xfkjy{
gjktwj ymfy ynrj; gzy tk ymnx N htzqi sty ozilj.  Kwtr ymnx ynrj f sjb
xunwny tk qnkj fsnrfyji ymj ijhf{nsl kwfrj tk ymj xywfsljw.  Mj
rfsnkjxyji ymj lwjfyjxy jfljwsjxx yt gj zuts ijhp yt bfyhm ktw ymj
xqjilj bmnhm mfi gjktwj fuujfwji; gzy N mfaj ujwxzfiji mnr yt wjrfns ns
ymj hfgns, ktw mj nx kfw ytt bjfp yt xzxyfns ymj wfbsjxx tk ymj
fyrtxumjwj.  N mfaj uwtrnxji ymfy xtrjtsj xmtzqi bfyhm ktw mnr fsi lnaj
mnr nsxyfsy stynhj nk fs{ sjb tgojhy xmtzqi fuujfw ns xnlmy.

Xzhm nx r{ otzwsfq tk bmfy wjqfyjx yt ymnx xywfslj thhzwwjshj zu yt ymj
uwjxjsy if{.  Ymj xywfsljw mfx lwfizfqq{ nruwtaji ns mjfqym gzy nx ajw{
xnqjsy fsi fuujfwx zsjfx{ bmjs fs{tsj j{hjuy r{xjqk jsyjwx mnx hfgns.
[jy mnx rfssjwx fwj xt htshnqnfynsl fsi ljsyqj ymfy ymj xfnqtwx fwj fqq
nsyjwjxyji ns mnr, fqymtzlm ymj{ mfaj mfi ajw{ qnyyqj htrrzsnhfynts
bnym mnr.  Ktw r{ tbs ufwy, N gjlns yt qtaj mnr fx f gwtymjw, fsi mnx
htsxyfsy fsi ijju lwnjk knqqx rj bnym x{rufym{ fsi htrufxxnts.  Mj rzxy
mfaj gjjs f stgqj hwjfyzwj ns mnx gjyyjw if{x, gjnsl jajs stb ns bwjhp
xt fyywfhynaj fsi frnfgqj.  N xfni ns tsj tk r{ qjyyjwx, r{ ijfw
Rfwlfwjy, ymfy N xmtzqi knsi st kwnjsi ts ymj bnij thjfs; {jy N mfaj
ktzsi f rfs bmt, gjktwj mnx xunwny mfi gjjs gwtpjs g{ rnxjw{, N xmtzqi
mfaj gjjs mfuu{ yt mfaj utxxjxxji fx ymj gwtymjw tk r{ mjfwy.

N xmfqq htsynszj r{ otzwsfq htshjwsnsl ymj xywfsljw fy nsyjwafqx,
xmtzqi N mfaj fs{ kwjxm nshnijsyx yt wjhtwi.


Fzlzxy 13ym, 17--

R{ fkkjhynts ktw r{ lzjxy nshwjfxjx jajw{ if{.  Mj j{hnyjx fy tshj r{
firnwfynts fsi r{ uny{ yt fs fxytsnxmnsl ijlwjj.  Mtb hfs N xjj xt
stgqj f hwjfyzwj ijxywt{ji g{ rnxjw{ bnymtzy kjjqnsl ymj rtxy utnlsfsy
lwnjk?  Mj nx xt ljsyqj, {jy xt bnxj; mnx rnsi nx xt hzqynafyji, fsi
bmjs mj xujfpx, fqymtzlm mnx btwix fwj hzqqji bnym ymj hmtnhjxy fwy,
{jy ymj{ kqtb bnym wfuniny{ fsi zsufwfqqjqji jqtvzjshj.  Mj nx stb rzhm
wjhtajwji kwtr mnx nqqsjxx fsi nx htsynszfqq{ ts ymj ijhp, fuufwjsyq{
bfyhmnsl ktw ymj xqjilj ymfy uwjhjiji mnx tbs.  [jy, fqymtzlm zsmfuu{,
mj nx sty xt zyyjwq{ thhzunji g{ mnx tbs rnxjw{ gzy ymfy mj nsyjwjxyx
mnrxjqk ijjuq{ ns ymj uwtojhyx tk tymjwx.  Mj mfx kwjvzjsyq{ htsajwxji
bnym rj ts rnsj, bmnhm N mfaj htrrzsnhfyji yt mnr bnymtzy inxlznxj.  Mj
jsyjwji fyyjsynajq{ nsyt fqq r{ fwlzrjsyx ns kfatzw tk r{ jajsyzfq
xzhhjxx fsi nsyt jajw{ rnszyj ijyfnq tk ymj rjfxzwjx N mfi yfpjs yt
xjhzwj ny.  N bfx jfxnq{ qji g{ ymj x{rufym{ bmnhm mj janshji yt zxj
ymj qfslzflj tk r{ mjfwy, yt lnaj zyyjwfshj yt ymj gzwsnsl fwitzw tk r{
xtzq fsi yt xf{, bnym fqq ymj kjwatzw ymfy bfwrji rj, mtb lqfiq{ N
btzqi xfhwnknhj r{ ktwyzsj, r{ j{nxyjshj, r{ jajw{ mtuj, yt ymj
kzwymjwfshj tk r{ jsyjwuwnxj.  Tsj rfs'x qnkj tw ijfym bjwj gzy f xrfqq
uwnhj yt uf{ ktw ymj fhvznwjrjsy tk ymj pstbqjilj bmnhm N xtzlmy, ktw
ymj itrnsnts N xmtzqi fhvznwj fsi ywfsxrny tajw ymj jqjrjsyfq ktjx tk
tzw wfhj.  Fx N xutpj, f ifwp lqttr xuwjfi tajw r{ qnxyjsjw'x
htzsyjsfshj.  Fy knwxy N ujwhjnaji ymfy mj ywnji yt xzuuwjxx mnx
jrtynts; mj uqfhji mnx mfsix gjktwj mnx j{jx, fsi r{ atnhj vznajwji fsi
kfnqji rj fx N gjmjqi yjfwx ywnhpqj kfxy kwtr gjybjjs mnx knsljwx; f
lwtfs gzwxy kwtr mnx mjfansl gwjfxy.  N ufzxji; fy qjslym mj xutpj, ns
gwtpjs fhhjsyx:  "Zsmfuu{ rfs!  It {tz xmfwj r{ rfisjxx?  Mfaj {tz
iwzsp fqxt tk ymj nsyt{nhfynsl iwfzlmy?  Mjfw rj; qjy rj wjajfq r{
yfqj, fsi {tz bnqq ifxm ymj hzu kwtr {tzw qnux!"

Xzhm btwix, {tz rf{ nrflnsj, xywtslq{ j{hnyji r{ hzwntxny{; gzy ymj
ufwt{{xr tk lwnjk ymfy mfi xjn{ji ymj xywfsljw tajwhfrj mnx bjfpjsji
utbjwx, fsi rfs{ mtzwx tk wjutxj fsi ywfsvznq htsajwxfynts bjwj
sjhjxxfw{ yt wjxytwj mnx htrutxzwj.  Mfansl htsvzjwji ymj antqjshj tk
mnx kjjqnslx, mj fuujfwji yt ijxunxj mnrxjqk ktw gjnsl ymj xqfaj tk
ufxxnts; fsi vzjqqnsl ymj ifwp y{wfss{ tk ijxufnw, mj qji rj flfns yt
htsajwxj htshjwsnsl r{xjqk ujwxtsfqq{.  Mj fxpji rj ymj mnxytw{ tk r{
jfwqnjw {jfwx.  Ymj yfqj bfx vznhpq{ ytqi, gzy ny fbfpjsji afwntzx
ywfnsx tk wjkqjhynts.  N xutpj tk r{ ijxnwj tk knsinsl f kwnjsi, tk r{
ymnwxy ktw f rtwj nsynrfyj x{rufym{ bnym f kjqqtb rnsi ymfs mfi jajw
kfqqjs yt r{ qty, fsi j{uwjxxji r{ htsanhynts ymfy f rfs htzqi gtfxy tk
qnyyqj mfuunsjxx bmt ini sty jsot{ ymnx gqjxxnsl.  "N flwjj bnym {tz,"
wjuqnji ymj xywfsljw; "bj fwj zskfxmntsji hwjfyzwjx, gzy mfqk rfij zu,
nk tsj bnxjw, gjyyjw, ijfwjw ymfs tzwxjqajx--xzhm f kwnjsi tzlmy yt
gj--it sty qjsi mnx fni yt ujwkjhyntsfyj tzw bjfp fsi kfzqy{ sfyzwjx. N
tshj mfi f kwnjsi, ymj rtxy stgqj tk mzrfs hwjfyzwjx, fsi fr jsynyqji,
ymjwjktwj, yt ozilj wjxujhynsl kwnjsixmnu.  [tz mfaj mtuj, fsi ymj
btwqi gjktwj {tz, fsi mfaj st hfzxj ktw ijxufnw.  Gzy N--N mfaj qtxy
jajw{ymnsl fsi hfssty gjlns qnkj fsjb."

Fx mj xfni ymnx mnx htzsyjsfshj gjhfrj j{uwjxxnaj tk f hfqr, xjyyqji
lwnjk ymfy ytzhmji rj yt ymj mjfwy.  Gzy mj bfx xnqjsy fsi uwjxjsyq{
wjynwji yt mnx hfgns.

Jajs gwtpjs ns xunwny fx mj nx, st tsj hfs kjjq rtwj ijjuq{ ymfs mj
itjx ymj gjfzynjx tk sfyzwj.  Ymj xyfww{ xp{, ymj xjf, fsi jajw{ xnlmy
fkktwiji g{ ymjxj btsijwkzq wjlntsx xjjr xynqq yt mfaj ymj utbjw tk
jqjafynsl mnx xtzq kwtr jfwym.  Xzhm f rfs mfx f itzgqj j{nxyjshj:  mj
rf{ xzkkjw rnxjw{ fsi gj tajwbmjqrji g{ inxfuutnsyrjsyx, {jy bmjs mj
mfx wjynwji nsyt mnrxjqk, mj bnqq gj qnpj f hjqjxynfq xunwny ymfy mfx f
mfqt fwtzsi mnr, bnymns bmtxj hnwhqj st lwnjk tw ktqq{ ajsyzwjx.

Bnqq {tz xrnqj fy ymj jsymzxnfxr N j{uwjxx htshjwsnsl ymnx inansj
bfsijwjw?  [tz btzqi sty nk {tz xfb mnr.  [tz mfaj gjjs yzytwji fsi
wjknsji g{ gttpx fsi wjynwjrjsy kwtr ymj btwqi, fsi {tz fwj ymjwjktwj
xtrjbmfy kfxynintzx; gzy ymnx tsq{ wjsijwx {tz ymj rtwj kny yt
fuuwjhnfyj ymj j{ywftwinsfw{ rjwnyx tk ymnx btsijwkzq rfs.  Xtrjynrjx N
mfaj jsijfatzwji yt inxhtajw bmfy vzfqny{ ny nx bmnhm mj utxxjxxjx ymfy
jqjafyjx mnr xt nrrjfxzwfgq{ fgtaj fs{ tymjw ujwxts N jajw psjb.  N
gjqnjaj ny yt gj fs nsyznynaj inxhjwsrjsy, f vznhp gzy sjajw-kfnqnsl
utbjw tk ozilrjsy, f ujsjywfynts nsyt ymj hfzxjx tk ymnslx, zsjvzfqqji
ktw hqjfwsjxx fsi uwjhnxnts; fii yt ymnx f kfhnqny{ tk j{uwjxxnts fsi f
atnhj bmtxj afwnji nsytsfyntsx fwj xtzq-xzgiznsl rzxnh.


Fzlzxy 19, 17--

[jxyjwif{ ymj xywfsljw xfni yt rj, "[tz rf{ jfxnq{ ujwhjnaj, Hfuyfns
Bfqyts, ymfy N mfaj xzkkjwji lwjfy fsi zsufwfqqjqji rnxktwyzsjx.  N mfi
ijyjwrnsji fy tsj ynrj ymfy ymj rjrtw{ tk ymjxj janqx xmtzqi inj bnym
rj, gzy {tz mfaj bts rj yt fqyjw r{ ijyjwrnsfynts.  [tz xjjp ktw
pstbqjilj fsi bnxitr, fx N tshj ini; fsi N fwijsyq{ mtuj ymfy ymj
lwfynknhfynts tk {tzw bnxmjx rf{ sty gj f xjwujsy yt xynsl {tz, fx rnsj
mfx gjjs.  N it sty pstb ymfy ymj wjqfynts tk r{ inxfxyjwx bnqq gj
zxjkzq yt {tz; {jy, bmjs N wjkqjhy ymfy {tz fwj uzwxznsl ymj xfrj
htzwxj, j{utxnsl {tzwxjqk yt ymj xfrj ifsljwx bmnhm mfaj wjsijwji rj
bmfy N fr, N nrflnsj ymfy {tz rf{ ijizhj fs fuy rtwfq kwtr r{ yfqj, tsj
ymfy rf{ inwjhy {tz nk {tz xzhhjji ns {tzw zsijwyfpnsl fsi htsxtqj {tz
ns hfxj tk kfnqzwj.  Uwjufwj yt mjfw tk thhzwwjshjx bmnhm fwj zxzfqq{
ijjrji rfwajqqtzx.  Bjwj bj frtsl ymj yfrjw xhjsjx tk sfyzwj N rnlmy
kjfw yt jshtzsyjw {tzw zsgjqnjk, ujwmfux {tzw wninhzqj; gzy rfs{ ymnslx
bnqq fuujfw utxxngqj ns ymjxj bnqi fsi r{xyjwntzx wjlntsx bmnhm btzqi
uwtatpj ymj qfzlmyjw tk ymtxj zsfhvzfnsyji bnym ymj jajw-afwnji utbjwx
tk sfyzwj; stw hfs N itzgy gzy ymfy r{ yfqj htsaj{x ns nyx xjwnjx
nsyjwsfq janijshj tk ymj ywzym tk ymj jajsyx tk bmnhm ny nx htrutxji."

[tz rf{ jfxnq{ nrflnsj ymfy N bfx rzhm lwfynknji g{ ymj tkkjwji
htrrzsnhfynts, {jy N htzqi sty jsizwj ymfy mj xmtzqi wjsjb mnx lwnjk g{
f wjhnyfq tk mnx rnxktwyzsjx.  N kjqy ymj lwjfyjxy jfljwsjxx yt mjfw
ymj uwtrnxji sfwwfynaj, ufwyq{ kwtr hzwntxny{ fsi ufwyq{ kwtr f xywtsl
ijxnwj yt frjqntwfyj mnx kfyj nk ny bjwj ns r{ utbjw.  N j{uwjxxji
ymjxj kjjqnslx ns r{ fsxbjw.

"N ymfsp {tz," mj wjuqnji, "ktw {tzw x{rufym{, gzy ny nx zxjqjxx; r{
kfyj nx sjfwq{ kzqknqqji.  N bfny gzy ktw tsj jajsy, fsi ymjs N xmfqq
wjutxj ns ujfhj.  N zsijwxyfsi {tzw kjjqnsl," htsynszji mj, ujwhjnansl
ymfy N bnxmji yt nsyjwwzuy mnr; "gzy {tz fwj rnxyfpjs, r{ kwnjsi, nk
ymzx {tz bnqq fqqtb rj yt sfrj {tz; stymnsl hfs fqyjw r{ ijxyns{;
qnxyjs yt r{ mnxytw{, fsi {tz bnqq ujwhjnaj mtb nwwjathfgq{ ny nx
ijyjwrnsji."

Mj ymjs ytqi rj ymfy mj btzqi htrrjshj mnx sfwwfynaj ymj sj{y if{ bmjs
N xmtzqi gj fy qjnxzwj.  Ymnx uwtrnxj iwjb kwtr rj ymj bfwrjxy ymfspx.
N mfaj wjxtqaji jajw{ snlmy, bmjs N fr sty nrujwfynajq{ thhzunji g{ r{
izynjx, yt wjhtwi, fx sjfwq{ fx utxxngqj ns mnx tbs btwix, bmfy mj mfx
wjqfyji izwnsl ymj if{.  Nk N xmtzqi gj jslflji, N bnqq fy qjfxy rfpj
styjx.  Ymnx rfszxhwnuy bnqq itzgyqjxx fkktwi {tz ymj lwjfyjxy
uqjfxzwj; gzy yt rj, bmt pstb mnr, fsi bmt mjfw ny kwtr mnx tbs
qnux--bnym bmfy nsyjwjxy fsi x{rufym{ xmfqq N wjfi ny ns xtrj kzyzwj
if{!  Jajs stb, fx N htrrjshj r{ yfxp, mnx kzqq-ytsji atnhj xbjqqx ns
r{ jfwx; mnx qzxywtzx j{jx ibjqq ts rj bnym fqq ymjnw rjqfshmtq{
xbjjysjxx; N xjj mnx ymns mfsi wfnxji ns fsnrfynts, bmnqj ymj
qnsjfrjsyx tk mnx kfhj fwj nwwfinfyji g{ ymj xtzq bnymns.

Xywfslj fsi mfwwtbnsl rzxy gj mnx xytw{, kwnlmykzq ymj xytwr bmnhm
jrgwfhji ymj lfqqfsy ajxxjq ts nyx htzwxj fsi bwjhpji ny--ymzx!



Hmfuyjw 1

N fr g{ gnwym f Ljsjajxj, fsi r{ kfrnq{ nx tsj tk ymj rtxy
inxynslznxmji tk ymfy wjuzgqnh.  R{ fshjxytwx mfi gjjs ktw rfs{ {jfwx
htzsxjqqtwx fsi x{sinhx, fsi r{ kfymjw mfi knqqji xjajwfq uzgqnh
xnyzfyntsx bnym mtstzw fsi wjuzyfynts.  Mj bfx wjxujhyji g{ fqq bmt
psjb mnr ktw mnx nsyjlwny{ fsi nsijkfynlfgqj fyyjsynts yt uzgqnh
gzxnsjxx.  Mj ufxxji mnx {tzsljw if{x ujwujyzfqq{ thhzunji g{ ymj
fkkfnwx tk mnx htzsyw{; f afwnjy{ tk hnwhzrxyfshjx mfi uwjajsyji mnx
rfww{nsl jfwq{, stw bfx ny zsynq ymj ijhqnsj tk qnkj ymfy mj gjhfrj f
mzxgfsi fsi ymj kfymjw tk f kfrnq{.

Fx ymj hnwhzrxyfshjx tk mnx rfwwnflj nqqzxywfyj mnx hmfwfhyjw, N hfssty
wjkwfns kwtr wjqfynsl ymjr.  Tsj tk mnx rtxy nsynrfyj kwnjsix bfx f
rjwhmfsy bmt, kwtr f kqtzwnxmnsl xyfyj, kjqq, ymwtzlm szrjwtzx
rnxhmfshjx, nsyt utajwy{.  Ymnx rfs, bmtxj sfrj bfx Gjfzktwy, bfx tk f
uwtzi fsi zsgjsinsl inxutxnynts fsi htzqi sty gjfw yt qnaj ns utajwy{
fsi tgqnants ns ymj xfrj htzsyw{ bmjwj mj mfi ktwrjwq{ gjjs
inxynslznxmji ktw mnx wfsp fsi rflsnknhjshj.  Mfansl ufni mnx ijgyx,
ymjwjktwj, ns ymj rtxy mtstzwfgqj rfssjw, mj wjywjfyji bnym mnx
ifzlmyjw yt ymj ytbs tk Qzhjwsj, bmjwj mj qnaji zspstbs fsi ns
bwjyhmjisjxx.  R{ kfymjw qtaji Gjfzktwy bnym ymj ywzjxy kwnjsixmnu fsi
bfx ijjuq{ lwnjaji g{ mnx wjywjfy ns ymjxj zsktwyzsfyj hnwhzrxyfshjx.
Mj gnyyjwq{ ijuqtwji ymj kfqxj uwnij bmnhm qji mnx kwnjsi yt f htsizhy
xt qnyyqj btwym{ tk ymj fkkjhynts ymfy zsnyji ymjr.  Mj qtxy st ynrj ns
jsijfatzwnsl yt xjjp mnr tzy, bnym ymj mtuj tk ujwxzfinsl mnr yt gjlns
ymj btwqi flfns ymwtzlm mnx hwjiny fsi fxxnxyfshj. Gjfzktwy mfi yfpjs
jkkjhyzfq rjfxzwjx yt htshjfq mnrxjqk, fsi ny bfx yjs rtsymx gjktwj r{
kfymjw inxhtajwji mnx fgtij.  Tajwot{ji fy ymnx inxhtajw{, mj mfxyjsji
yt ymj mtzxj, bmnhm bfx xnyzfyji ns f rjfs xywjjy sjfw ymj Wjzxx.  Gzy
bmjs mj jsyjwji, rnxjw{ fsi ijxufnw fqtsj bjqhtrji mnr.  Gjfzktwy mfi
xfaji gzy f ajw{ xrfqq xzr tk rtsj{ kwtr ymj bwjhp tk mnx ktwyzsjx, gzy
ny bfx xzkknhnjsy yt uwtanij mnr bnym xzxyjsfshj ktw xtrj rtsymx, fsi
ns ymj rjfsynrj mj mtuji yt uwthzwj xtrj wjxujhyfgqj jruqt{rjsy ns f
rjwhmfsy'x mtzxj.  Ymj nsyjwafq bfx, htsxjvzjsyq{, xujsy ns nsfhynts;
mnx lwnjk tsq{ gjhfrj rtwj ijju fsi wfspqnsl bmjs mj mfi qjnxzwj ktw
wjkqjhynts, fsi fy qjslym ny yttp xt kfxy mtqi tk mnx rnsi ymfy fy ymj
jsi tk ymwjj rtsymx mj qf{ ts f gji tk xnhpsjxx, nshfufgqj tk fs{
j{jwynts.

Mnx ifzlmyjw fyyjsiji mnr bnym ymj lwjfyjxy yjsijwsjxx, gzy xmj xfb
bnym ijxufnw ymfy ymjnw qnyyqj kzsi bfx wfuniq{ ijhwjfxnsl fsi ymfy
ymjwj bfx st tymjw uwtxujhy tk xzuutwy.  Gzy Hfwtqnsj Gjfzktwy
utxxjxxji f rnsi tk fs zshtrrts rtzqi, fsi mjw htzwflj wtxj yt xzuutwy
mjw ns mjw fiajwxny{.  Xmj uwthzwji uqfns btwp; xmj uqfnyji xywfb fsi
g{ afwntzx rjfsx htsywnaji yt jfws f unyyfshj xhfwhjq{ xzkknhnjsy yt
xzuutwy qnkj.

Xjajwfq rtsymx ufxxji ns ymnx rfssjw.  Mjw kfymjw lwjb btwxj; mjw ynrj
bfx rtwj jsynwjq{ thhzunji ns fyyjsinsl mnr; mjw rjfsx tk xzgxnxyjshj
ijhwjfxji; fsi ns ymj yjsym rtsym mjw kfymjw inji ns mjw fwrx, qjfansl
mjw fs twumfs fsi f gjllfw.  Ymnx qfxy gqtb tajwhfrj mjw, fsi xmj psjqy
g{ Gjfzktwy'x htkkns bjjunsl gnyyjwq{, bmjs r{ kfymjw jsyjwji ymj
hmfrgjw.  Mj hfrj qnpj f uwtyjhynsl xunwny yt ymj uttw lnwq, bmt
htrrnyyji mjwxjqk yt mnx hfwj; fsi fkyjw ymj nsyjwrjsy tk mnx kwnjsi mj
htsizhyji mjw yt Ljsjaf fsi uqfhji mjw zsijw ymj uwtyjhynts tk f
wjqfynts.  Ybt {jfwx fkyjw ymnx jajsy Hfwtqnsj gjhfrj mnx bnkj.

Ymjwj bfx f htsxnijwfgqj inkkjwjshj gjybjjs ymj fljx tk r{ ufwjsyx, gzy
ymnx hnwhzrxyfshj xjjrji yt zsnyj ymjr tsq{ hqtxjw ns gtsix tk ijatyji
fkkjhynts.  Ymjwj bfx f xjsxj tk ozxynhj ns r{ kfymjw'x zuwnlmy rnsi
bmnhm wjsijwji ny sjhjxxfw{ ymfy mj xmtzqi fuuwtaj mnlmq{ yt qtaj
xywtslq{.  Ujwmfux izwnsl ktwrjw {jfwx mj mfi xzkkjwji kwtr ymj
qfyj-inxhtajwji zsbtwymnsjxx tk tsj gjqtaji fsi xt bfx inxutxji yt xjy
f lwjfyjw afqzj ts ywnji btwym.  Ymjwj bfx f xmtb tk lwfynyzij fsi
btwxmnu ns mnx fyyfhmrjsy yt r{ rtymjw, inkkjwnsl bmtqq{ kwtr ymj
itynsl ktsisjxx tk flj, ktw ny bfx nsxunwji g{ wjajwjshj ktw mjw
anwyzjx fsi f ijxnwj yt gj ymj rjfsx tk, ns xtrj ijlwjj, wjhtrujsxnsl
mjw ktw ymj xtwwtbx xmj mfi jsizwji, gzy bmnhm lfaj nsj{uwjxxngqj lwfhj
yt mnx gjmfantzw yt mjw.  Jajw{ymnsl bfx rfij yt {njqi yt mjw bnxmjx
fsi mjw htsajsnjshj.  Mj xywtaj yt xmjqyjw mjw, fx f kfnw j{tynh nx
xmjqyjwji g{ ymj lfwijsjw, kwtr jajw{ wtzlmjw bnsi fsi yt xzwwtzsi mjw
bnym fqq ymfy htzqi yjsi yt j{hnyj uqjfxzwfgqj jrtynts ns mjw xtky fsi
gjsjatqjsy rnsi.  Mjw mjfqym, fsi jajs ymj ywfsvznqqny{ tk mjw mnymjwyt
htsxyfsy xunwny, mfi gjjs xmfpjs g{ bmfy xmj mfi ltsj ymwtzlm.  Izwnsl
ymj ybt {jfwx ymfy mfi jqfuxji uwjantzx yt ymjnw rfwwnflj r{ kfymjw mfi
lwfizfqq{ wjqnsvznxmji fqq mnx uzgqnh kzshyntsx; fsi nrrjinfyjq{ fkyjw
ymjnw zsnts ymj{ xtzlmy ymj uqjfxfsy hqnrfyj tk Nyfq{, fsi ymj hmfslj
tk xhjsj fsi nsyjwjxy fyyjsifsy ts f ytzw ymwtzlm ymfy qfsi tk btsijwx,
fx f wjxytwfynaj ktw mjw bjfpjsji kwfrj.

Kwtr Nyfq{ ymj{ anxnyji Ljwrfs{ fsi Kwfshj.  N, ymjnw jqijxy hmnqi, bfx
gtws fy Sfuqjx, fsi fx fs nskfsy fhhtrufsnji ymjr ns ymjnw wfrgqjx.  N
wjrfnsji ktw xjajwfq {jfwx ymjnw tsq{ hmnqi.  Rzhm fx ymj{ bjwj
fyyfhmji yt jfhm tymjw, ymj{ xjjrji yt iwfb nsj{mfzxyngqj xytwjx tk
fkkjhynts kwtr f ajw{ rnsj tk qtaj yt gjxytb ymjr zuts rj.  R{ rtymjw'x
yjsijw hfwjxxjx fsi r{ kfymjw'x xrnqj tk gjsjatqjsy uqjfxzwj bmnqj
wjlfwinsl rj fwj r{ knwxy wjhtqqjhyntsx.  N bfx ymjnw uqf{ymnsl fsi
ymjnw nitq, fsi xtrjymnsl gjyyjw--ymjnw hmnqi, ymj nssthjsy fsi
mjquqjxx hwjfyzwj gjxytbji ts ymjr g{ mjfajs, bmtr yt gwnsl zu yt ltti,
fsi bmtxj kzyzwj qty ny bfx ns ymjnw mfsix yt inwjhy yt mfuunsjxx tw
rnxjw{, fhhtwinsl fx ymj{ kzqknqqji ymjnw izynjx ytbfwix rj.  Bnym ymnx
ijju htsxhntzxsjxx tk bmfy ymj{ tbji ytbfwix ymj gjnsl yt bmnhm ymj{
mfi lnajs qnkj, fiiji yt ymj fhynaj xunwny tk yjsijwsjxx ymfy fsnrfyji
gtym, ny rf{ gj nrflnsji ymfy bmnqj izwnsl jajw{ mtzw tk r{ nskfsy qnkj
N wjhjnaji f qjxxts tk ufynjshj, tk hmfwny{, fsi tk xjqk-htsywtq, N bfx
xt lzniji g{ f xnqpjs htwi ymfy fqq xjjrji gzy tsj ywfns tk jsot{rjsy
yt rj. Ktw f qtsl ynrj N bfx ymjnw tsq{ hfwj.  R{ rtymjw mfi rzhm
ijxnwji yt mfaj f ifzlmyjw, gzy N htsynszji ymjnw xnslqj tkkxuwnsl.
Bmjs N bfx fgtzy knaj {jfwx tqi, bmnqj rfpnsl fs j{hzwxnts gj{tsi ymj
kwtsynjwx tk Nyfq{, ymj{ ufxxji f bjjp ts ymj xmtwjx tk ymj Qfpj tk
Htrt.  Ymjnw gjsjatqjsy inxutxnynts tkyjs rfij ymjr jsyjw ymj htyyfljx
tk ymj uttw.  Ymnx, yt r{ rtymjw, bfx rtwj ymfs f izy{; ny bfx f
sjhjxxny{, f ufxxnts--wjrjrgjwnsl bmfy xmj mfi xzkkjwji, fsi mtb xmj
mfi gjjs wjqnjaji--ktw mjw yt fhy ns mjw yzws ymj lzfwinfs fsljq yt ymj
fkkqnhyji.  Izwnsl tsj tk ymjnw bfqpx f uttw hty ns ymj ktqinslx tk f
afqj fyywfhyji ymjnw stynhj fx gjnsl xnslzqfwq{ inxhtsxtqfyj, bmnqj ymj
szrgjw tk mfqk-hqtymji hmnqiwjs lfymjwji fgtzy ny xutpj tk ujszw{ ns
nyx btwxy xmfuj.  Tsj if{, bmjs r{ kfymjw mfi ltsj g{ mnrxjqk yt Rnqfs,
r{ rtymjw, fhhtrufsnji g{ rj, anxnyji ymnx fgtij.  Xmj ktzsi f ujfxfsy
fsi mnx bnkj, mfwi btwpnsl, gjsy itbs g{ hfwj fsi qfgtzw, inxywngzynsl
f xhfsy{ rjfq yt knaj mzslw{ gfgjx.  Frtsl ymjxj ymjwj bfx tsj bmnhm
fyywfhyji r{ rtymjw kfw fgtaj fqq ymj wjxy.  Xmj fuujfwji tk f
inkkjwjsy xythp.  Ymj ktzw tymjwx bjwj ifwp-j{ji, mfwi{ qnyyqj
aflwfsyx; ymnx hmnqi bfx ymns fsi ajw{ kfnw.  Mjw mfnw bfx ymj
gwnlmyjxy qnansl ltqi, fsi ijxunyj ymj utajwy{ tk mjw hqtymnsl, xjjrji
yt xjy f hwtbs tk inxynshynts ts mjw mjfi.  Mjw gwtb bfx hqjfw fsi
fruqj, mjw gqzj j{jx hqtziqjxx, fsi mjw qnux fsi ymj rtzqinsl tk mjw
kfhj xt j{uwjxxnaj tk xjsxngnqny{ fsi xbjjysjxx ymfy stsj htzqi gjmtqi
mjw bnymtzy qttpnsl ts mjw fx tk f inxynshy xujhnjx, f gjnsl
mjfajs-xjsy, fsi gjfwnsl f hjqjxynfq xyfru ns fqq mjw kjfyzwjx. Ymj
ujfxfsy btrfs, ujwhjnansl ymfy r{ rtymjw kn{ji j{jx tk btsijw fsi
firnwfynts ts ymnx qtajq{ lnwq, jfljwq{ htrrzsnhfyji mjw mnxytw{.  Xmj
bfx sty mjw hmnqi, gzy ymj ifzlmyjw tk f Rnqfsjxj stgqjrfs.  Mjw rtymjw
bfx f Ljwrfs fsi mfi inji ts lnansl mjw gnwym.  Ymj nskfsy mfi gjjs
uqfhji bnym ymjxj ltti ujtuqj yt szwxj:  ymj{ bjwj gjyyjw tkk ymjs.
Ymj{ mfi sty gjjs qtsl rfwwnji, fsi ymjnw jqijxy hmnqi bfx gzy ozxy
gtws.  Ymj kfymjw tk ymjnw hmfwlj bfx tsj tk ymtxj Nyfqnfsx szwxji ns
ymj rjrtw{ tk ymj fsynvzj lqtw{ tk Nyfq{--tsj frtsl ymj xhmnfan tlstw
kwjrjsyn, bmt j{jwyji mnrxjqk yt tgyfns ymj qngjwy{ tk mnx htzsyw{.  Mj
gjhfrj ymj anhynr tk nyx bjfpsjxx.  Bmjymjw mj mfi inji tw xynqq
qnsljwji ns ymj izsljtsx tk Fzxywnf bfx sty pstbs.  Mnx uwtujwy{ bfx
htsknxhfyji; mnx hmnqi gjhfrj fs twumfs fsi f gjllfw.  Xmj htsynszji
bnym mjw ktxyjw ufwjsyx fsi gqttrji ns ymjnw wzij fgtij, kfnwjw ymfs f
lfwijs wtxj frtsl ifwp-qjfaji gwfrgqjx.  Bmjs r{ kfymjw wjyzwsji kwtr
Rnqfs, mj ktzsi uqf{nsl bnym rj ns ymj mfqq tk tzw anqqf f hmnqi kfnwjw
ymfs unhyzwji hmjwzg--f hwjfyzwj bmt xjjrji yt xmji wfinfshj kwtr mjw
qttpx fsi bmtxj ktwr fsi rtyntsx bjwj qnlmyjw ymfs ymj hmfrtnx tk ymj
mnqqx.  Ymj fuufwnynts bfx xtts j{uqfnsji.  Bnym mnx ujwrnxxnts r{
rtymjw uwjafnqji ts mjw wzxynh lzfwinfsx yt {njqi ymjnw hmfwlj yt mjw.
Ymj{ bjwj ktsi tk ymj xbjjy twumfs.  Mjw uwjxjshj mfi xjjrji f gqjxxnsl
yt ymjr, gzy ny btzqi gj zskfnw yt mjw yt pjju mjw ns utajwy{ fsi bfsy
bmjs Uwtanijshj fkktwiji mjw xzhm utbjwkzq uwtyjhynts.  Ymj{ htsxzqyji
ymjnw anqqflj uwnjxy, fsi ymj wjxzqy bfx ymfy Jqn{fgjym Qfajs{f gjhfrj
ymj nsrfyj tk r{ ufwjsyx' mtzxj--r{ rtwj ymfs xnxyjw--ymj gjfzynkzq fsi
fitwji htrufsnts tk fqq r{ thhzufyntsx fsi r{ uqjfxzwjx.

Jajw{tsj qtaji Jqn{fgjym.  Ymj ufxxntsfyj fsi fqrtxy wjajwjsynfq
fyyfhmrjsy bnym bmnhm fqq wjlfwiji mjw gjhfrj, bmnqj N xmfwji ny, r{
uwnij fsi r{ ijqnlmy.  Ts ymj jajsnsl uwjantzx yt mjw gjnsl gwtzlmy yt
r{ mtrj, r{ rtymjw mfi xfni uqf{kzqq{, "N mfaj f uwjyy{ uwjxjsy ktw r{
Anhytw--ytrtwwtb mj xmfqq mfaj ny."  Fsi bmjs, ts ymj rtwwtb, xmj
uwjxjsyji Jqn{fgjym yt rj fx mjw uwtrnxji lnky, N, bnym hmnqinxm
xjwntzxsjxx, nsyjwuwjyji mjw btwix qnyjwfqq{ fsi qttpji zuts Jqn{fgjym
fx rnsj--rnsj yt uwtyjhy, qtaj, fsi hmjwnxm.  Fqq uwfnxjx gjxytbji ts
mjw N wjhjnaji fx rfij yt f utxxjxxnts tk r{ tbs.  Bj hfqqji jfhm tymjw
kfrnqnfwq{ g{ ymj sfrj tk htzxns.  St btwi, st j{uwjxxnts htzqi gti{
ktwym ymj pnsi tk wjqfynts ns bmnhm xmj xytti yt rj--r{ rtwj ymfs
xnxyjw, xnshj ynqq ijfym xmj bfx yt gj rnsj tsq{.



Hmfuyjw 2

Bj bjwj gwtzlmy zu ytljymjw; ymjwj bfx sty vznyj f {jfw inkkjwjshj ns
tzw fljx.  N sjji sty xf{ ymfy bj bjwj xywfsljwx yt fs{ xujhnjx tk
inxzsnts tw inxuzyj.  Mfwrts{ bfx ymj xtzq tk tzw htrufsntsxmnu, fsi
ymj inajwxny{ fsi htsywfxy ymfy xzgxnxyji ns tzw hmfwfhyjwx iwjb zx
sjfwjw ytljymjw.  Jqn{fgjym bfx tk f hfqrjw fsi rtwj htshjsywfyji
inxutxnynts; gzy, bnym fqq r{ fwitzw, N bfx hfufgqj tk f rtwj nsyjsxj
fuuqnhfynts fsi bfx rtwj ijjuq{ xrnyyjs bnym ymj ymnwxy ktw pstbqjilj.
Xmj gzxnji mjwxjqk bnym ktqqtbnsl ymj fjwnfq hwjfyntsx tk ymj utjyx;
fsi ns ymj rfojxynh fsi btsiwtzx xhjsjx bmnhm xzwwtzsiji tzw Xbnxx mtrj
--ymj xzgqnrj xmfujx tk ymj rtzsyfnsx, ymj hmfsljx tk ymj xjfxtsx,
yjrujxy fsi hfqr, ymj xnqjshj tk bnsyjw, fsi ymj qnkj fsi yzwgzqjshj tk
tzw Fqunsj xzrrjwx--xmj ktzsi fruqj xhtuj ktw firnwfynts fsi ijqnlmy.
Bmnqj r{ htrufsnts htsyjruqfyji bnym f xjwntzx fsi xfynxknji xunwny ymj
rflsnknhjsy fuujfwfshjx tk ymnslx, N ijqnlmyji ns nsajxynlfynsl ymjnw
hfzxjx.  Ymj btwqi bfx yt rj f xjhwjy bmnhm N ijxnwji yt inansj.
Hzwntxny{, jfwsjxy wjxjfwhm yt qjfws ymj mniijs qfbx tk sfyzwj,
lqfisjxx fpns yt wfuyzwj, fx ymj{ bjwj zsktqiji yt rj, fwj frtsl ymj
jfwqnjxy xjsxfyntsx N hfs wjrjrgjw.

Ts ymj gnwym tk f xjhtsi xts, r{ ozsntw g{ xjajs {jfwx, r{ ufwjsyx lfaj
zu jsynwjq{ ymjnw bfsijwnsl qnkj fsi kn{ji ymjrxjqajx ns ymjnw sfynaj
htzsyw{.  Bj utxxjxxji f mtzxj ns Ljsjaf, fsi f hfruflsj ts Gjqwnaj,
ymj jfxyjws xmtwj tk ymj qfpj, fy ymj inxyfshj tk wfymjw rtwj ymfs f
qjflzj kwtr ymj hny{.  Bj wjxniji uwnshnufqq{ ns ymj qfyyjw, fsi ymj
qnajx tk r{ ufwjsyx bjwj ufxxji ns htsxnijwfgqj xjhqzxnts.  Ny bfx r{
yjrujw yt fatni f hwtbi fsi yt fyyfhm r{xjqk kjwajsyq{ yt f kjb.  N bfx
nsinkkjwjsy, ymjwjktwj, yt r{ xhmttq-kjqqtbx ns ljsjwfq; gzy N zsnyji
r{xjqk ns ymj gtsix tk ymj hqtxjxy kwnjsixmnu yt tsj frtsl ymjr.  Mjsw{
Hqjwafq bfx ymj xts tk f rjwhmfsy tk Ljsjaf.  Mj bfx f gt{ tk xnslzqfw
yfqjsy fsi kfsh{.  Mj qtaji jsyjwuwnxj, mfwixmnu, fsi jajs ifsljw ktw
nyx tbs xfpj.  Mj bfx ijjuq{ wjfi ns gttpx tk hmnafqw{ fsi wtrfshj.  Mj
htrutxji mjwtnh xtslx fsi gjlfs yt bwnyj rfs{ f yfqj tk jshmfsyrjsy fsi
psnlmyq{ fiajsyzwj.  Mj ywnji yt rfpj zx fhy uqf{x fsi yt jsyjw nsyt
rfxvzjwfijx, ns bmnhm ymj hmfwfhyjwx bjwj iwfbs kwtr ymj mjwtjx tk
Wtshjxafqqjx, tk ymj Wtzsi Yfgqj tk Pnsl Fwymzw, fsi ymj hmnafqwtzx
ywfns bmt xmji ymjnw gqtti yt wjijjr ymj mtq{ xjuzqhmwj kwtr ymj mfsix
tk ymj nsknijqx.

St mzrfs gjnsl htzqi mfaj ufxxji f mfuunjw hmnqimtti ymfs r{xjqk.  R{
ufwjsyx bjwj utxxjxxji g{ ymj ajw{ xunwny tk pnsisjxx fsi nsizqljshj.
Bj kjqy ymfy ymj{ bjwj sty ymj y{wfsyx yt wzqj tzw qty fhhtwinsl yt
ymjnw hfuwnhj, gzy ymj fljsyx fsi hwjfytwx tk fqq ymj rfs{ ijqnlmyx
bmnhm bj jsot{ji.  Bmjs N rnslqji bnym tymjw kfrnqnjx N inxynshyq{
inxhjwsji mtb ujhzqnfwq{ ktwyzsfyj r{ qty bfx, fsi lwfynyzij fxxnxyji
ymj ijajqturjsy tk knqnfq qtaj.

R{ yjrujw bfx xtrjynrjx antqjsy, fsi r{ ufxxntsx ajmjrjsy; gzy g{ xtrj
qfb ns r{ yjrujwfyzwj ymj{ bjwj yzwsji sty ytbfwix hmnqinxm uzwxznyx
gzy yt fs jfljw ijxnwj yt qjfws, fsi sty yt qjfws fqq ymnslx
nsinxhwnrnsfyjq{.  N htskjxx ymfy sjnymjw ymj xywzhyzwj tk qfslzfljx,
stw ymj htij tk ltajwsrjsyx, stw ymj utqnynhx tk afwntzx xyfyjx
utxxjxxji fyywfhyntsx ktw rj.  Ny bfx ymj xjhwjyx tk mjfajs fsi jfwym
ymfy N ijxnwji yt qjfws; fsi bmjymjw ny bfx ymj tzybfwi xzgxyfshj tk
ymnslx tw ymj nssjw xunwny tk sfyzwj fsi ymj r{xyjwntzx xtzq tk rfs
ymfy thhzunji rj, xynqq r{ nsvznwnjx bjwj inwjhyji yt ymj rjyfum{xnhfq,
tw ns nyx mnlmjxy xjsxj, ymj um{xnhfq xjhwjyx tk ymj btwqi.

Rjfsbmnqj Hqjwafq thhzunji mnrxjqk, xt yt xujfp, bnym ymj rtwfq
wjqfyntsx tk ymnslx.  Ymj gzx{ xyflj tk qnkj, ymj anwyzjx tk mjwtjx,
fsi ymj fhyntsx tk rjs bjwj mnx ymjrj; fsi mnx mtuj fsi mnx iwjfr bfx
yt gjhtrj tsj frtsl ymtxj bmtxj sfrjx fwj wjhtwiji ns xytw{ fx ymj
lfqqfsy fsi fiajsyzwtzx gjsjkfhytwx tk tzw xujhnjx.  Ymj xfnsyq{ xtzq
tk Jqn{fgjym xmtsj qnpj f xmwnsj-ijinhfyji qfru ns tzw ujfhjkzq mtrj.
Mjw x{rufym{ bfx tzwx; mjw xrnqj, mjw xtky atnhj, ymj xbjjy lqfshj tk
mjw hjqjxynfq j{jx, bjwj jajw ymjwj yt gqjxx fsi fsnrfyj zx.  Xmj bfx
ymj qnansl xunwny tk qtaj yt xtkyjs fsi fyywfhy; N rnlmy mfaj gjhtrj
xzqqjs ns r{ xyzi{, wtzlmy ymwtzlm ymj fwitzw tk r{ sfyzwj, gzy ymfy
xmj bfx ymjwj yt xzgizj rj yt f xjrgqfshj tk mjw tbs ljsyqjsjxx.  Fsi
Hqjwafq--htzqi fzlmy nqq jsywjshm ts ymj stgqj xunwny tk Hqjwafq?  [jy
mj rnlmy sty mfaj gjjs xt ujwkjhyq{ mzrfsj, xt ymtzlmykzq ns mnx
ljsjwtxny{, xt kzqq tk pnsisjxx fsi yjsijwsjxx frnixy mnx ufxxnts ktw
fiajsyzwtzx j{uqtny, mfi xmj sty zsktqiji yt mnr ymj wjfq qtajqnsjxx tk
gjsjknhjshj fsi rfij ymj itnsl ltti ymj jsi fsi fnr tk mnx xtfwnsl
frgnynts.

N kjjq j{vznxnyj uqjfxzwj ns ibjqqnsl ts ymj wjhtqqjhyntsx tk
hmnqimtti, gjktwj rnxktwyzsj mfi yfnsyji r{ rnsi fsi hmfslji nyx gwnlmy
anxntsx tk j{yjsxnaj zxjkzqsjxx nsyt lqttr{ fsi sfwwtb wjkqjhyntsx zuts
xjqk.  Gjxnijx, ns iwfbnsl ymj unhyzwj tk r{ jfwq{ if{x, N fqxt wjhtwi
ymtxj jajsyx bmnhm qji, g{ nsxjsxngqj xyjux, yt r{ fkyjw yfqj tk
rnxjw{, ktw bmjs N btzqi fhhtzsy yt r{xjqk ktw ymj gnwym tk ymfy
ufxxnts bmnhm fkyjwbfwix wzqji r{ ijxyns{ N knsi ny fwnxj, qnpj f
rtzsyfns wnajw, kwtr nlstgqj fsi fqrtxy ktwltyyjs xtzwhjx; gzy,
xbjqqnsl fx ny uwthjjiji, ny gjhfrj ymj ytwwjsy bmnhm, ns nyx htzwxj,
mfx xbjuy fbf{ fqq r{ mtujx fsi ot{x.  Sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{ nx ymj ljsnzx
ymfy mfx wjlzqfyji r{ kfyj; N ijxnwj, ymjwjktwj, ns ymnx sfwwfynts, yt
xyfyj ymtxj kfhyx bmnhm qji yt r{ uwjinqjhynts ktw ymfy xhnjshj.  Bmjs
N bfx ymnwyjjs {jfwx tk flj bj fqq bjsy ts f ufwy{ tk uqjfxzwj yt ymj
gfymx sjfw Ymtsts; ymj nshqjrjsh{ tk ymj bjfymjw tgqnlji zx yt wjrfns f
if{ htsknsji yt ymj nss.  Ns ymnx mtzxj N hmfshji yt knsi f atqzrj tk
ymj btwpx tk Htwsjqnzx Flwnuuf.  N tujsji ny bnym fufym{; ymj ymjtw{
bmnhm mj fyyjruyx yt ijrtsxywfyj fsi ymj btsijwkzq kfhyx bmnhm mj
wjqfyjx xtts hmfslji ymnx kjjqnsl nsyt jsymzxnfxr.  F sjb qnlmy xjjrji
yt ifbs zuts r{ rnsi, fsi gtzsinsl bnym ot{, N htrrzsnhfyji r{
inxhtajw{ yt r{ kfymjw.  R{ kfymjw qttpji hfwjqjxxq{ fy ymj ynyqj uflj
tk r{ gttp fsi xfni, "Fm!  Htwsjqnzx Flwnuuf!  R{ ijfw Anhytw, it sty
bfxyj {tzw ynrj zuts ymnx; ny nx xfi ywfxm."

Nk, nsxyjfi tk ymnx wjrfwp, r{ kfymjw mfi yfpjs ymj ufnsx yt j{uqfns yt
rj ymfy ymj uwnshnuqjx tk Flwnuuf mfi gjjs jsynwjq{ j{uqtiji fsi ymfy f
rtijws x{xyjr tk xhnjshj mfi gjjs nsywtizhji bmnhm utxxjxxji rzhm
lwjfyjw utbjwx ymfs ymj fshnjsy, gjhfzxj ymj utbjwx tk ymj qfyyjw bjwj
hmnrjwnhfq, bmnqj ymtxj tk ymj ktwrjw bjwj wjfq fsi uwfhynhfq, zsijw
xzhm hnwhzrxyfshjx N xmtzqi hjwyfnsq{ mfaj ymwtbs Flwnuuf fxnij fsi
mfaj htsyjsyji r{ nrflnsfynts, bfwrji fx ny bfx, g{ wjyzwsnsl bnym
lwjfyjw fwitzw yt r{ ktwrjw xyzinjx.  Ny nx jajs utxxngqj ymfy ymj
ywfns tk r{ nijfx btzqi sjajw mfaj wjhjnaji ymj kfyfq nruzqxj ymfy qji
yt r{ wzns.  Gzy ymj hzwxtw{ lqfshj r{ kfymjw mfi yfpjs tk r{ atqzrj g{
st rjfsx fxxzwji rj ymfy mj bfx fhvzfnsyji bnym nyx htsyjsyx, fsi N
htsynszji yt wjfi bnym ymj lwjfyjxy faniny{.  Bmjs N wjyzwsji mtrj r{
knwxy hfwj bfx yt uwthzwj ymj bmtqj btwpx tk ymnx fzymtw, fsi
fkyjwbfwix tk Ufwfhjqxzx fsi Fqgjwyzx Rflszx.  N wjfi fsi xyzinji ymj
bnqi kfshnjx tk ymjxj bwnyjwx bnym ijqnlmy; ymj{ fuujfwji yt rj
ywjfxzwjx pstbs yt kjb gjxnijx r{xjqk.  N mfaj ijxhwngji r{xjqk fx
fqbf{x mfansl gjjs nrgzji bnym f kjwajsy qtslnsl yt ujsjywfyj ymj
xjhwjyx tk sfyzwj.  Ns xunyj tk ymj nsyjsxj qfgtzw fsi btsijwkzq
inxhtajwnjx tk rtijws umnqtxtumjwx, N fqbf{x hfrj kwtr r{ xyzinjx
inxhtsyjsyji fsi zsxfynxknji.  Xnw Nxffh Sjbyts nx xfni yt mfaj fatbji
ymfy mj kjqy qnpj f hmnqi unhpnsl zu xmjqqx gjxnij ymj lwjfy fsi
zsj{uqtwji thjfs tk ywzym.  Ymtxj tk mnx xzhhjxxtwx ns jfhm gwfshm tk
sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{ bnym bmtr N bfx fhvzfnsyji fuujfwji jajs yt r{ gt{'x
fuuwjmjsxntsx fx y{wtx jslflji ns ymj xfrj uzwxzny.

Ymj zsyfzlmy ujfxfsy gjmjqi ymj jqjrjsyx fwtzsi mnr fsi bfx fhvzfnsyji
bnym ymjnw uwfhynhfq zxjx.  Ymj rtxy qjfwsji umnqtxtumjw psjb qnyyqj
rtwj.  Mj mfi ufwynfqq{ zsajnqji ymj kfhj tk Sfyzwj, gzy mjw nrrtwyfq
qnsjfrjsyx bjwj xynqq f btsijw fsi f r{xyjw{.  Mj rnlmy inxxjhy,
fsfytrn{j, fsi lnaj sfrjx; gzy, sty yt xujfp tk f knsfq hfzxj, hfzxjx
ns ymjnw xjhtsifw{ fsi yjwynfw{ lwfijx bjwj zyyjwq{ zspstbs yt mnr.  N
mfi lf{ji zuts ymj ktwynknhfyntsx fsi nrujinrjsyx ymfy xjjrji yt pjju
mzrfs gjnslx kwtr jsyjwnsl ymj hnyfijq tk sfyzwj, fsi wfxmq{ fsi
nlstwfsyq{ N mfi wjunsji.

Gzy mjwj bjwj gttpx, fsi mjwj bjwj rjs bmt mfi ujsjywfyji ijjujw fsi
psjb rtwj.  N yttp ymjnw btwi ktw fqq ymfy ymj{ fajwwji, fsi N gjhfrj
ymjnw inxhnuqj.  Ny rf{ fuujfw xywfslj ymfy xzhm xmtzqi fwnxj ns ymj
jnlmyjjsym hjsyzw{; gzy bmnqj N ktqqtbji ymj wtzynsj tk jizhfynts ns
ymj xhmttqx tk Ljsjaf, N bfx, yt f lwjfy ijlwjj, xjqk-yfzlmy bnym
wjlfwi yt r{ kfatzwnyj xyzinjx.  R{ kfymjw bfx sty xhnjsynknh, fsi N
bfx qjky yt xywzllqj bnym f hmnqi'x gqnsisjxx, fiiji yt f xyzijsy'x
ymnwxy ktw pstbqjilj.  Zsijw ymj lznifshj tk r{ sjb uwjhjuytwx N
jsyjwji bnym ymj lwjfyjxy inqnljshj nsyt ymj xjfwhm tk ymj
umnqtxtumjw'x xytsj fsi ymj jqn{nw tk qnkj; gzy ymj qfyyjw xtts
tgyfnsji r{ zsinaniji fyyjsynts.  Bjfqym bfx fs nskjwntw tgojhy, gzy
bmfy lqtw{ btzqi fyyjsi ymj inxhtajw{ nk N htzqi gfsnxm inxjfxj kwtr
ymj mzrfs kwfrj fsi wjsijw rfs nsazqsjwfgqj yt fs{ gzy f antqjsy ijfym!
Stw bjwj ymjxj r{ tsq{ anxntsx.  Ymj wfnxnsl tk lmtxyx tw ijanqx bfx f
uwtrnxj qngjwfqq{ fhhtwiji g{ r{ kfatzwnyj fzymtwx, ymj kzqknqrjsy tk
bmnhm N rtxy jfljwq{ xtzlmy; fsi nk r{ nshfsyfyntsx bjwj fqbf{x
zsxzhhjxxkzq, N fyywngzyji ymj kfnqzwj wfymjw yt r{ tbs nsj{ujwnjshj
fsi rnxyfpj ymfs yt f bfsy tk xpnqq tw knijqny{ ns r{ nsxywzhytwx.  Fsi
ymzx ktw f ynrj N bfx thhzunji g{ j{uqtiji x{xyjrx, rnslqnsl, qnpj fs
zsfijuy, f ymtzxfsi htsywfinhytw{ ymjtwnjx fsi kqtzsijwnsl ijxujwfyjq{
ns f ajw{ xqtzlm tk rzqynkfwntzx pstbqjilj, lzniji g{ fs fwijsy
nrflnsfynts fsi hmnqinxm wjfxtsnsl, ynqq fs fhhnijsy flfns hmfslji ymj
hzwwjsy tk r{ nijfx.  Bmjs N bfx fgtzy knkyjjs {jfwx tqi bj mfi wjynwji
yt tzw mtzxj sjfw Gjqwnaj, bmjs bj bnysjxxji f rtxy antqjsy fsi
yjwwngqj ymzsijwxytwr.  Ny fiafshji kwtr gjmnsi ymj rtzsyfnsx tk Ozwf,
fsi ymj ymzsijw gzwxy fy tshj bnym kwnlmykzq qtzisjxx kwtr afwntzx
vzfwyjwx tk ymj mjfajsx.  N wjrfnsji, bmnqj ymj xytwr qfxyji, bfyhmnsl
nyx uwtlwjxx bnym hzwntxny{ fsi ijqnlmy.  Fx N xytti fy ymj ittw, ts f
xziijs N gjmjqi f xywjfr tk knwj nxxzj kwtr fs tqi fsi gjfzynkzq tfp
bmnhm xytti fgtzy ybjsy{ {fwix kwtr tzw mtzxj; fsi xt xtts fx ymj
if{{qnsl qnlmy afsnxmji, ymj tfp mfi inxfuujfwji, fsi stymnsl wjrfnsji
gzy f gqfxyji xyzru.  Bmjs bj anxnyji ny ymj sj{y rtwsnsl, bj ktzsi ymj
ywjj xmfyyjwji ns f xnslzqfw rfssjw.  Ny bfx sty xuqnsyjwji g{ ymj
xmthp, gzy jsynwjq{ wjizhji yt ymns wnggtsx tk btti.  N sjajw gjmjqi
fs{ymnsl xt zyyjwq{ ijxywt{ji.

Gjktwj ymnx N bfx sty zsfhvzfnsyji bnym ymj rtwj tgantzx qfbx tk
jqjhywnhny{.  Ts ymnx thhfxnts f rfs tk lwjfy wjxjfwhm ns sfyzwfq
umnqtxtum{ bfx bnym zx, fsi j{hnyji g{ ymnx hfyfxywtumj, mj jsyjwji ts
ymj j{uqfsfynts tk f ymjtw{ bmnhm mj mfi ktwrji ts ymj xzgojhy tk
jqjhywnhny{ fsi lfqafsnxr, bmnhm bfx fy tshj sjb fsi fxytsnxmnsl yt rj.
Fqq ymfy mj xfni ymwjb lwjfyq{ nsyt ymj xmfij Htwsjqnzx Flwnuuf,
Fqgjwyzx Rflszx, fsi Ufwfhjqxzx, ymj qtwix tk r{ nrflnsfynts; gzy g{
xtrj kfyfqny{ ymj tajwymwtb tk ymjxj rjs inxnshqnsji rj yt uzwxzj r{
fhhzxytrji xyzinjx.  Ny xjjrji yt rj fx nk stymnsl btzqi tw htzqi jajw
gj pstbs.  Fqq ymfy mfi xt qtsl jslflji r{ fyyjsynts xziijsq{ lwjb
ijxunhfgqj.  G{ tsj tk ymtxj hfuwnhjx tk ymj rnsi bmnhm bj fwj ujwmfux
rtxy xzgojhy yt ns jfwq{ {tzym, N fy tshj lfaj zu r{ ktwrjw
thhzufyntsx, xjy itbs sfyzwfq mnxytw{ fsi fqq nyx uwtljs{ fx f ijktwrji
fsi fgtwynaj hwjfynts, fsi jsyjwyfnsji ymj lwjfyjxy inxifns ktw f
btzqi-gj xhnjshj bmnhm htzqi sjajw jajs xyju bnymns ymj ymwjxmtqi tk
wjfq pstbqjilj.  Ns ymnx rtti tk rnsi N gjyttp r{xjqk yt ymj
rfymjrfynhx fsi ymj gwfshmjx tk xyzi{ fuujwyfnsnsl yt ymfy xhnjshj fx
gjnsl gznqy zuts xjhzwj ktzsifyntsx, fsi xt btwym{ tk r{ htsxnijwfynts.

Ymzx xywfsljq{ fwj tzw xtzqx htsxywzhyji, fsi g{ xzhm xqnlmy qnlfrjsyx
fwj bj gtzsi yt uwtxujwny{ tw wzns.  Bmjs N qttp gfhp, ny xjjrx yt rj
fx nk ymnx fqrtxy rnwfhzqtzx hmfslj tk nshqnsfynts fsi bnqq bfx ymj
nrrjinfyj xzlljxynts tk ymj lzfwinfs fsljq tk r{ qnkj--ymj qfxy jkktwy
rfij g{ ymj xunwny tk uwjxjwafynts yt fajwy ymj xytwr ymfy bfx jajs
ymjs mfslnsl ns ymj xyfwx fsi wjfi{ yt jsajqtu rj.  Mjw anhytw{ bfx
fsstzshji g{ fs zszxzfq ywfsvznqqny{ fsi lqfisjxx tk xtzq bmnhm
ktqqtbji ymj wjqnsvznxmnsl tk r{ fshnjsy fsi qfyyjwq{ ytwrjsynsl
xyzinjx.  Ny bfx ymzx ymfy N bfx yt gj yfzlmy yt fxxthnfyj janq bnym
ymjnw uwtxjhzynts, mfuunsjxx bnym ymjnw inxwjlfwi.

Ny bfx f xywtsl jkktwy tk ymj xunwny tk ltti, gzy ny bfx nsjkkjhyzfq.
Ijxyns{ bfx ytt utyjsy, fsi mjw nrrzyfgqj qfbx mfi ijhwjji r{ zyyjw fsi
yjwwngqj ijxywzhynts.



Hmfuyjw 3

Bmjs N mfi fyyfnsji ymj flj tk xjajsyjjs r{ ufwjsyx wjxtqaji ymfy N
xmtzqi gjhtrj f xyzijsy fy ymj zsnajwxny{ tk Nsltqxyfiy.  N mfi
mnymjwyt fyyjsiji ymj xhmttqx tk Ljsjaf, gzy r{ kfymjw ymtzlmy ny
sjhjxxfw{ ktw ymj htruqjynts tk r{ jizhfynts ymfy N xmtzqi gj rfij
fhvzfnsyji bnym tymjw hzxytrx ymfs ymtxj tk r{ sfynaj htzsyw{.  R{
ijufwyzwj bfx ymjwjktwj kn{ji fy fs jfwq{ ifyj, gzy gjktwj ymj if{
wjxtqaji zuts htzqi fwwnaj, ymj knwxy rnxktwyzsj tk r{ qnkj
thhzwwji--fs trjs, fx ny bjwj, tk r{ kzyzwj rnxjw{.  Jqn{fgjym mfi
hfzlmy ymj xhfwqjy kjajw; mjw nqqsjxx bfx xjajwj, fsi xmj bfx ns ymj
lwjfyjxy ifsljw.  Izwnsl mjw nqqsjxx rfs{ fwlzrjsyx mfi gjjs zwlji yt
ujwxzfij r{ rtymjw yt wjkwfns kwtr fyyjsinsl zuts mjw.  Xmj mfi fy
knwxy {njqiji yt tzw jsywjfynjx, gzy bmjs xmj mjfwi ymfy ymj qnkj tk
mjw kfatzwnyj bfx rjsfhji, xmj htzqi st qtsljw htsywtq mjw fs{njy{. Xmj
fyyjsiji mjw xnhpgji; mjw bfyhmkzq fyyjsyntsx ywnzrumji tajw ymj
rfqnlsny{ tk ymj inxyjrujw--Jqn{fgjym bfx xfaji, gzy ymj htsxjvzjshjx
tk ymnx nruwzijshj bjwj kfyfq yt mjw uwjxjwajw.  Ts ymj ymnwi if{ r{
rtymjw xnhpjsji; mjw kjajw bfx fhhtrufsnji g{ ymj rtxy fqfwrnsl
x{ruytrx, fsi ymj qttpx tk mjw rjinhfq fyyjsifsyx uwtlstxynhfyji ymj
btwxy jajsy.  Ts mjw ijfymgji ymj ktwynyzij fsi gjsnlsny{ tk ymnx gjxy
tk btrjs ini sty ijxjwy mjw.  Xmj otnsji ymj mfsix tk Jqn{fgjym fsi
r{xjqk.  "R{ hmnqiwjs," xmj xfni, "r{ knwrjxy mtujx tk kzyzwj mfuunsjxx
bjwj uqfhji ts ymj uwtxujhy tk {tzw zsnts.  Ymnx j{ujhyfynts bnqq stb
gj ymj htsxtqfynts tk {tzw kfymjw.  Jqn{fgjym, r{ qtaj, {tz rzxy xzuuq{
r{ uqfhj yt r{ {tzsljw hmnqiwjs.  Fqfx!  N wjlwjy ymfy N fr yfpjs kwtr
{tz; fsi, mfuu{ fsi gjqtaji fx N mfaj gjjs, nx ny sty mfwi yt vzny {tz
fqq?  Gzy ymjxj fwj sty ymtzlmyx gjknyynsl rj; N bnqq jsijfatzw yt
wjxnls r{xjqk hmjjwkzqq{ yt ijfym fsi bnqq nsizqlj f mtuj tk rjjynsl
{tz ns fstymjw btwqi."

Xmj inji hfqrq{, fsi mjw htzsyjsfshj j{uwjxxji fkkjhynts jajs ns ijfym.
N sjji sty ijxhwngj ymj kjjqnslx tk ymtxj bmtxj ijfwjxy ynjx fwj wjsy
g{ ymfy rtxy nwwjufwfgqj janq, ymj atni ymfy uwjxjsyx nyxjqk yt ymj
xtzq, fsi ymj ijxufnw ymfy nx j{mngnyji ts ymj htzsyjsfshj.  Ny nx xt
qtsl gjktwj ymj rnsi hfs ujwxzfij nyxjqk ymfy xmj bmtr bj xfb jajw{ if{
fsi bmtxj ajw{ j{nxyjshj fuujfwji f ufwy tk tzw tbs hfs mfaj ijufwyji
ktwjajw--ymfy ymj gwnlmysjxx tk f gjqtaji j{j hfs mfaj gjjs
j{ynslznxmji fsi ymj xtzsi tk f atnhj xt kfrnqnfw fsi ijfw yt ymj jfw
hfs gj mzxmji, sjajw rtwj yt gj mjfwi.  Ymjxj fwj ymj wjkqjhyntsx tk
ymj knwxy if{x; gzy bmjs ymj qfuxj tk ynrj uwtajx ymj wjfqny{ tk ymj
janq, ymjs ymj fhyzfq gnyyjwsjxx tk lwnjk htrrjshjx.  [jy kwtr bmtr mfx
sty ymfy wzij mfsi wjsy fbf{ xtrj ijfw htssjhynts?  Fsi bm{ xmtzqi N
ijxhwngj f xtwwtb bmnhm fqq mfaj kjqy, fsi rzxy kjjq?  Ymj ynrj fy
qjslym fwwnajx bmjs lwnjk nx wfymjw fs nsizqljshj ymfs f sjhjxxny{; fsi
ymj xrnqj ymfy uqf{x zuts ymj qnux, fqymtzlm ny rf{ gj ijjrji f
xfhwnqjlj, nx sty gfsnxmji.  R{ rtymjw bfx ijfi, gzy bj mfi xynqq
izynjx bmnhm bj tzlmy yt ujwktwr; bj rzxy htsynszj tzw htzwxj bnym ymj
wjxy fsi qjfws yt ymnsp tzwxjqajx ktwyzsfyj bmnqxy tsj wjrfnsx bmtr ymj
xutnqjw mfx sty xjn{ji.

R{ ijufwyzwj ktw Nsltqxyfiy, bmnhm mfi gjjs ijkjwwji g{ ymjxj jajsyx,
bfx stb flfns ijyjwrnsji zuts.  N tgyfnsji kwtr r{ kfymjw f wjxunyj tk
xtrj bjjpx.  Ny fuujfwji yt rj xfhwnqjlj xt xtts yt qjfaj ymj wjutxj,
fpns yt ijfym, tk ymj mtzxj tk rtzwsnsl fsi yt wzxm nsyt ymj ymnhp tk
qnkj.  N bfx sjb yt xtwwtb, gzy ny ini sty ymj qjxx fqfwr rj.  N bfx
zsbnqqnsl yt vzny ymj xnlmy tk ymtxj ymfy wjrfnsji yt rj, fsi fgtaj
fqq, N ijxnwji yt xjj r{ xbjjy Jqn{fgjym ns xtrj ijlwjj htsxtqji.

Xmj nsijji ajnqji mjw lwnjk fsi xywtaj yt fhy ymj htrktwyjw yt zx fqq.
Xmj qttpji xyjfinq{ ts qnkj fsi fxxzrji nyx izynjx bnym htzwflj fsi
{jfq.  Xmj ijatyji mjwxjqk yt ymtxj bmtr xmj mfi gjjs yfzlmy yt hfqq
mjw zshqj fsi htzxnsx.  Sjajw bfx xmj xt jshmfsynsl fx fy ymnx ynrj,
bmjs xmj wjhfqqji ymj xzsxmnsj tk mjw xrnqjx fsi xujsy ymjr zuts zx.
Xmj ktwlty jajs mjw tbs wjlwjy ns mjw jsijfatzwx yt rfpj zx ktwljy.

Ymj if{ tk r{ ijufwyzwj fy qjslym fwwnaji.  Hqjwafq xujsy ymj qfxy
jajsnsl bnym zx.  Mj mfi jsijfatzwji yt ujwxzfij mnx kfymjw yt ujwrny
mnr yt fhhtrufs{ rj fsi yt gjhtrj r{ kjqqtb xyzijsy, gzy ns afns.  Mnx
kfymjw bfx f sfwwtb-rnsiji ywfijw fsi xfb niqjsjxx fsi wzns ns ymj
fxunwfyntsx fsi frgnynts tk mnx xts.  Mjsw{ ijjuq{ kjqy ymj rnxktwyzsj
tk gjnsl ijgfwwji kwtr f qngjwfq jizhfynts.  Mj xfni qnyyqj, gzy bmjs
mj xutpj N wjfi ns mnx pnsiqnsl j{j fsi ns mnx fsnrfyji lqfshj f
wjxywfnsji gzy knwr wjxtqaj sty yt gj hmfnsji yt ymj rnxjwfgqj ijyfnqx
tk htrrjwhj.

Bj xfy qfyj.  Bj htzqi sty yjfw tzwxjqajx fbf{ kwtr jfhm tymjw stw
ujwxzfij tzwxjqajx yt xf{ ymj btwi "Kfwjbjqq!"  Ny bfx xfni, fsi bj
wjynwji zsijw ymj uwjyjshj tk xjjpnsl wjutxj, jfhm kfsh{nsl ymfy ymj
tymjw bfx ijhjnaji; gzy bmjs fy rtwsnsl'x ifbs N ijxhjsiji yt ymj
hfwwnflj bmnhm bfx yt htsaj{ rj fbf{, ymj{ bjwj fqq ymjwj--r{ kfymjw
flfns yt gqjxx rj, Hqjwafq yt uwjxx r{ mfsi tshj rtwj, r{ Jqn{fgjym yt
wjsjb mjw jsywjfynjx ymfy N btzqi bwnyj tkyjs fsi yt gjxytb ymj qfxy
kjrnsnsj fyyjsyntsx ts mjw uqf{rfyj fsi kwnjsi.

N ymwjb r{xjqk nsyt ymj hmfnxj ymfy bfx yt htsaj{ rj fbf{ fsi nsizqlji
ns ymj rtxy rjqfshmtq{ wjkqjhyntsx.  N, bmt mfi jajw gjjs xzwwtzsiji g{
frnfgqj htrufsntsx, htsynszfqq{ jslflji ns jsijfatzwnsl yt gjxytb
rzyzfq uqjfxzwj--N bfx stb fqtsj.  Ns ymj zsnajwxny{ bmnymjw N bfx
ltnsl N rzxy ktwr r{ tbs kwnjsix fsi gj r{ tbs uwtyjhytw.  R{ qnkj mfi
mnymjwyt gjjs wjrfwpfgq{ xjhqziji fsi itrjxynh, fsi ymnx mfi lnajs rj
nsanshngqj wjuzlsfshj yt sjb htzsyjsfshjx.  N qtaji r{ gwtymjwx,
Jqn{fgjym, fsi Hqjwafq; ymjxj bjwj "tqi kfrnqnfw kfhjx," gzy N gjqnjaji
r{xjqk ytyfqq{ zsknyyji ktw ymj htrufs{ tk xywfsljwx.  Xzhm bjwj r{
wjkqjhyntsx fx N htrrjshji r{ otzwsj{; gzy fx N uwthjjiji, r{ xunwnyx
fsi mtujx wtxj.  N fwijsyq{ ijxnwji ymj fhvznxnynts tk pstbqjilj.  N
mfi tkyjs, bmjs fy mtrj, ymtzlmy ny mfwi yt wjrfns izwnsl r{ {tzym
httuji zu ns tsj uqfhj fsi mfi qtslji yt jsyjw ymj btwqi fsi yfpj r{
xyfynts frtsl tymjw mzrfs gjnslx.  Stb r{ ijxnwjx bjwj htruqnji bnym,
fsi ny btzqi, nsijji, mfaj gjjs ktqq{ yt wjujsy.

N mfi xzkknhnjsy qjnxzwj ktw ymjxj fsi rfs{ tymjw wjkqjhyntsx izwnsl r{
otzwsj{ yt Nsltqxyfiy, bmnhm bfx qtsl fsi kfynlznsl.  Fy qjslym ymj
mnlm bmnyj xyjjuqj tk ymj ytbs rjy r{ j{jx.  N fqnlmyji fsi bfx
htsizhyji yt r{ xtqnyfw{ fufwyrjsy yt xujsi ymj jajsnsl fx N uqjfxji.

Ymj sj{y rtwsnsl N ijqnajwji r{ qjyyjwx tk nsywtizhynts fsi ufni f
anxny yt xtrj tk ymj uwnshnufq uwtkjxxtwx.  Hmfshj--tw wfymjw ymj janq
nskqzjshj, ymj Fsljq tk Ijxywzhynts, bmnhm fxxjwyji trsnutyjsy xbf{
tajw rj kwtr ymj rtrjsy N yzwsji r{ wjqzhyfsy xyjux kwtr r{ kfymjw'x
ittw--qji rj knwxy yt R. Pwjruj, uwtkjxxtw tk sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{.  Mj
bfx fs zshtzym rfs, gzy ijjuq{ nrgzji ns ymj xjhwjyx tk mnx xhnjshj. Mj
fxpji rj xjajwfq vzjxyntsx htshjwsnsl r{ uwtlwjxx ns ymj inkkjwjsy
gwfshmjx tk xhnjshj fuujwyfnsnsl yt sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{.  N wjuqnji
hfwjqjxxq{, fsi ufwyq{ ns htsyjruy, rjsyntsji ymj sfrjx tk r{
fqhmjrnxyx fx ymj uwnshnufq fzymtwx N mfi xyzinji.  Ymj uwtkjxxtw
xyfwji.  "Mfaj {tz," mj xfni, "wjfqq{ xujsy {tzw ynrj ns xyzi{nsl xzhm
stsxjsxj?"

N wjuqnji ns ymj fkknwrfynaj.  "Jajw{ rnszyj," htsynszji R. Pwjruj bnym
bfwrym, "jajw{ nsxyfsy ymfy {tz mfaj bfxyji ts ymtxj gttpx nx zyyjwq{
fsi jsynwjq{ qtxy.  [tz mfaj gzwijsji {tzw rjrtw{ bnym j{uqtiji x{xyjrx
fsi zxjqjxx sfrjx.  Ltti Lti!  Ns bmfy ijxjwy qfsi mfaj {tz qnaji,
bmjwj st tsj bfx pnsi jstzlm yt nsktwr {tz ymfy ymjxj kfshnjx bmnhm {tz
mfaj xt lwjjinq{ nrgngji fwj f ymtzxfsi {jfwx tqi fsi fx rzxy{ fx ymj{
fwj fshnjsy?  N qnyyqj j{ujhyji, ns ymnx jsqnlmyjsji fsi xhnjsynknh
flj, yt knsi f inxhnuqj tk Fqgjwyzx Rflszx fsi Ufwfhjqxzx.  R{ ijfw
xnw, {tz rzxy gjlns {tzw xyzinjx jsynwjq{ fsjb."

Xt xf{nsl, mj xyjuuji fxnij fsi bwtyj itbs f qnxy tk xjajwfq gttpx
ywjfynsl tk sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{ bmnhm mj ijxnwji rj yt uwthzwj, fsi
inxrnxxji rj fkyjw rjsyntsnsl ymfy ns ymj gjlnssnsl tk ymj ktqqtbnsl
bjjp mj nsyjsiji yt htrrjshj f htzwxj tk qjhyzwjx zuts sfyzwfq
umnqtxtum{ ns nyx ljsjwfq wjqfyntsx, fsi ymfy R. Bfqirfs, f kjqqtb
uwtkjxxtw, btzqi qjhyzwj zuts hmjrnxyw{ ymj fqyjwsfyj if{x ymfy mj
trnyyji.

N wjyzwsji mtrj sty inxfuutnsyji, ktw N mfaj xfni ymfy N mfi qtsl
htsxnijwji ymtxj fzymtwx zxjqjxx bmtr ymj uwtkjxxtw wjuwtgfyji; gzy N
wjyzwsji sty fy fqq ymj rtwj nshqnsji yt wjhzw yt ymjxj xyzinjx ns fs{
xmfuj.  R. Pwjruj bfx f qnyyqj xvzfy rfs bnym f lwzkk atnhj fsi f
wjuzqxnaj htzsyjsfshj; ymj yjfhmjw, ymjwjktwj, ini sty uwjutxxjxx rj ns
kfatzw tk mnx uzwxznyx.  Ns wfymjw f ytt umnqtxtumnhfq fsi htssjhyji f
xywfns, ujwmfux, N mfaj lnajs fs fhhtzsy tk ymj htshqzxntsx N mfi htrj
yt htshjwsnsl ymjr ns r{ jfwq{ {jfwx.  Fx f hmnqi N mfi sty gjjs
htsyjsy bnym ymj wjxzqyx uwtrnxji g{ ymj rtijws uwtkjxxtwx tk sfyzwfq
xhnjshj.  Bnym f htskzxnts tk nijfx tsq{ yt gj fhhtzsyji ktw g{ r{
j{ywjrj {tzym fsi r{ bfsy tk f lznij ts xzhm rfyyjwx, N mfi wjywti ymj
xyjux tk pstbqjilj fqtsl ymj ufymx tk ynrj fsi j{hmfslji ymj
inxhtajwnjx tk wjhjsy nsvznwjwx ktw ymj iwjfrx tk ktwltyyjs fqhmjrnxyx.
Gjxnijx, N mfi f htsyjruy ktw ymj zxjx tk rtijws sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{.
Ny bfx ajw{ inkkjwjsy bmjs ymj rfxyjwx tk ymj xhnjshj xtzlmy
nrrtwyfqny{ fsi utbjw; xzhm anjbx, fqymtzlm kzynqj, bjwj lwfsi; gzy stb
ymj xhjsj bfx hmfslji.  Ymj frgnynts tk ymj nsvznwjw xjjrji yt qnrny
nyxjqk yt ymj fssnmnqfynts tk ymtxj anxntsx ts bmnhm r{ nsyjwjxy ns
xhnjshj bfx hmnjkq{ ktzsiji.  N bfx wjvznwji yt j{hmfslj hmnrjwfx tk
gtzsiqjxx lwfsijzw ktw wjfqnynjx tk qnyyqj btwym.

Xzhm bjwj r{ wjkqjhyntsx izwnsl ymj knwxy ybt tw ymwjj if{x tk r{
wjxnijshj fy Nsltqxyfiy, bmnhm bjwj hmnjkq{ xujsy ns gjhtrnsl
fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj qthfqnynjx fsi ymj uwnshnufq wjxnijsyx ns r{ sjb
fgtij.  Gzy fx ymj jsxznsl bjjp htrrjshji, N ymtzlmy tk ymj nsktwrfynts
bmnhm R. Pwjruj mfi lnajs rj htshjwsnsl ymj qjhyzwjx.  Fsi fqymtzlm N
htzqi sty htsxjsy yt lt fsi mjfw ymfy qnyyqj htshjnyji kjqqtb ijqnajw
xjsyjshjx tzy tk f uzquny, N wjhtqqjhyji bmfy mj mfi xfni tk R.
Bfqirfs, bmtr N mfi sjajw xjjs, fx mj mfi mnymjwyt gjjs tzy tk ytbs.

Ufwyq{ kwtr hzwntxny{ fsi ufwyq{ kwtr niqjsjxx, N bjsy nsyt ymj
qjhyzwnsl wttr, bmnhm R. Bfqirfs jsyjwji xmtwyq{ fkyjw.  Ymnx uwtkjxxtw
bfx ajw{ zsqnpj mnx htqqjflzj.  Mj fuujfwji fgtzy knky{ {jfwx tk flj,
gzy bnym fs fxujhy j{uwjxxnaj tk ymj lwjfyjxy gjsjatqjshj; f kjb lwj{
mfnwx htajwji mnx yjruqjx, gzy ymtxj fy ymj gfhp tk mnx mjfi bjwj
sjfwq{ gqfhp.  Mnx ujwxts bfx xmtwy gzy wjrfwpfgq{ jwjhy fsi mnx atnhj
ymj xbjjyjxy N mfi jajw mjfwi.  Mj gjlfs mnx qjhyzwj g{ f
wjhfunyzqfynts tk ymj mnxytw{ tk hmjrnxyw{ fsi ymj afwntzx nruwtajrjsyx
rfij g{ inkkjwjsy rjs tk qjfwsnsl, uwtstzshnsl bnym kjwatzw ymj sfrjx
tk ymj rtxy inxynslznxmji inxhtajwjwx.  Mj ymjs yttp f hzwxtw{ anjb tk
ymj uwjxjsy xyfyj tk ymj xhnjshj fsi j{uqfnsji rfs{ tk nyx jqjrjsyfw{
yjwrx.  Fkyjw mfansl rfij f kjb uwjufwfytw{ j{ujwnrjsyx, mj htshqziji
bnym f ufsjl{wnh zuts rtijws hmjrnxyw{, ymj yjwrx tk bmnhm N xmfqq
sjajw ktwljy:  "Ymj fshnjsy yjfhmjwx tk ymnx xhnjshj," xfni mj,
"uwtrnxji nrutxxngnqnynjx fsi ujwktwrji stymnsl.  Ymj rtijws rfxyjwx
uwtrnxj ajw{ qnyyqj; ymj{ pstb ymfy rjyfqx hfssty gj ywfsxrzyji fsi
ymfy ymj jqn{nw tk qnkj nx f hmnrjwf gzy ymjxj umnqtxtumjwx, bmtxj
mfsix xjjr tsq{ rfij yt ifggqj ns inwy, fsi ymjnw j{jx yt utwj tajw ymj
rnhwtxhtuj tw hwzhngqj, mfaj nsijji ujwktwrji rnwfhqjx.  Ymj{ ujsjywfyj
nsyt ymj wjhjxxjx tk sfyzwj fsi xmtb mtb xmj btwpx ns mjw
mninsl-uqfhjx.  Ymj{ fxhjsi nsyt ymj mjfajsx; ymj{ mfaj inxhtajwji mtb
ymj gqtti hnwhzqfyjx, fsi ymj sfyzwj tk ymj fnw bj gwjfymj.  Ymj{ mfaj
fhvznwji sjb fsi fqrtxy zsqnrnyji utbjwx; ymj{ hfs htrrfsi ymj ymzsijwx
tk mjfajs, rnrnh ymj jfwymvzfpj, fsi jajs rthp ymj nsanxngqj btwqi bnym
nyx tbs xmfitbx."

Xzhm bjwj ymj uwtkjxxtw'x btwix--wfymjw qjy rj xf{ xzhm ymj btwix tk
ymj kfyj--jstzshji yt ijxywt{ rj.  Fx mj bjsy ts N kjqy fx nk r{ xtzq
bjwj lwfuuqnsl bnym f ufqufgqj jsjr{; tsj g{ tsj ymj afwntzx pj{x bjwj
ytzhmji bmnhm ktwrji ymj rjhmfsnxr tk r{ gjnsl; hmtwi fkyjw hmtwi bfx
xtzsiji, fsi xtts r{ rnsi bfx knqqji bnym tsj ymtzlmy, tsj htshjuynts,
tsj uzwutxj.  Xt rzhm mfx gjjs itsj, j{hqfnrji ymj xtzq tk
Kwfspjsxyjns--rtwj, kfw rtwj, bnqq N fhmnjaj; ywjfinsl ns ymj xyjux
fqwjfi{ rfwpji, N bnqq untsjjw f sjb bf{, j{uqtwj zspstbs utbjwx, fsi
zsktqi yt ymj btwqi ymj ijjujxy r{xyjwnjx tk hwjfynts.

N hqtxji sty r{ j{jx ymfy snlmy.  R{ nsyjwsfq gjnsl bfx ns f xyfyj tk
nsxzwwjhynts fsi yzwrtnq; N kjqy ymfy twijw btzqi ymjshj fwnxj, gzy N
mfi st utbjw yt uwtizhj ny.  G{ ijlwjjx, fkyjw ymj rtwsnsl'x ifbs,
xqjju hfrj.  N fbtpj, fsi r{ {jxyjwsnlmy'x ymtzlmyx bjwj fx f iwjfr.
Ymjwj tsq{ wjrfnsji f wjxtqzynts yt wjyzws yt r{ fshnjsy xyzinjx fsi yt
ijatyj r{xjqk yt f xhnjshj ktw bmnhm N gjqnjaji r{xjqk yt utxxjxx f
sfyzwfq yfqjsy.  Ts ymj xfrj if{ N ufni R. Bfqirfs f anxny.  Mnx
rfssjwx ns uwnafyj bjwj jajs rtwj rnqi fsi fyywfhynaj ymfs ns uzgqnh,
ktw ymjwj bfx f hjwyfns inlsny{ ns mnx rnjs izwnsl mnx qjhyzwj bmnhm ns
mnx tbs mtzxj bfx wjuqfhji g{ ymj lwjfyjxy fkkfgnqny{ fsi pnsisjxx.  N
lfaj mnr uwjyy{ sjfwq{ ymj xfrj fhhtzsy tk r{ ktwrjw uzwxznyx fx N mfi
lnajs yt mnx kjqqtb uwtkjxxtw.  Mj mjfwi bnym fyyjsynts ymj qnyyqj
sfwwfynts htshjwsnsl r{ xyzinjx fsi xrnqji fy ymj sfrjx tk Htwsjqnzx
Flwnuuf fsi Ufwfhjqxzx, gzy bnymtzy ymj htsyjruy ymfy R. Pwjruj mfi
j{mngnyji. Mj xfni ymfy "Ymjxj bjwj rjs yt bmtxj nsijkfynlfgqj {jfq
rtijws umnqtxtumjwx bjwj nsijgyji ktw rtxy tk ymj ktzsifyntsx tk ymjnw
pstbqjilj.  Ymj{ mfi qjky yt zx, fx fs jfxnjw yfxp, yt lnaj sjb sfrjx
fsi fwwfslj ns htssjhyji hqfxxnknhfyntsx ymj kfhyx bmnhm ymj{ ns f
lwjfy ijlwjj mfi gjjs ymj nsxywzrjsyx tk gwnslnsl yt qnlmy.  Ymj
qfgtzwx tk rjs tk ljsnzx, mtbjajw jwwtsjtzxq{ inwjhyji, xhfwhjq{ jajw
kfnq ns zqynrfyjq{ yzwsnsl yt ymj xtqni fiafsyflj tk rfspnsi."  N
qnxyjsji yt mnx xyfyjrjsy, bmnhm bfx ijqnajwji bnymtzy fs{ uwjxzruynts
tw fkkjhyfynts, fsi ymjs fiiji ymfy mnx qjhyzwj mfi wjrtaji r{
uwjozinhjx flfnsxy rtijws hmjrnxyx; N j{uwjxxji r{xjqk ns rjfxzwji
yjwrx, bnym ymj rtijxy{ fsi ijkjwjshj izj kwtr f {tzym yt mnx
nsxywzhytw, bnymtzy qjyynsl jxhfuj (nsj{ujwnjshj ns qnkj btzqi mfaj
rfij rj fxmfrji) fs{ tk ymj jsymzxnfxr bmnhm xynrzqfyji r{ nsyjsiji
qfgtzwx.  N wjvzjxyji mnx fianhj htshjwsnsl ymj gttpx N tzlmy yt
uwthzwj.

"N fr mfuu{," xfni R. Bfqirfs, "yt mfaj lfnsji f inxhnuqj; fsi nk {tzw
fuuqnhfynts jvzfqx {tzw fgnqny{, N mfaj st itzgy tk {tzw xzhhjxx.
Hmjrnxyw{ nx ymfy gwfshm tk sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{ ns bmnhm ymj lwjfyjxy
nruwtajrjsyx mfaj gjjs fsi rf{ gj rfij; ny nx ts ymfy fhhtzsy ymfy N
mfaj rfij ny r{ ujhzqnfw xyzi{; gzy fy ymj xfrj ynrj, N mfaj sty
sjlqjhyji ymj tymjw gwfshmjx tk xhnjshj.  F rfs btzqi rfpj gzy f ajw{
xtww{ hmjrnxy nk mj fyyjsiji yt ymfy ijufwyrjsy tk mzrfs pstbqjilj
fqtsj.  Nk {tzw bnxm nx yt gjhtrj wjfqq{ f rfs tk xhnjshj fsi sty
rjwjq{ f ujyy{ j{ujwnrjsyfqnxy, N xmtzqi fianxj {tz yt fuuq{ yt jajw{
gwfshm tk sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{, nshqzinsl rfymjrfynhx."  Mj ymjs yttp rj
nsyt mnx qfgtwfytw{ fsi j{uqfnsji yt rj ymj zxjx tk mnx afwntzx
rfhmnsjx, nsxywzhynsl rj fx yt bmfy N tzlmy yt uwthzwj fsi uwtrnxnsl rj
ymj zxj tk mnx tbs bmjs N xmtzqi mfaj fiafshji kfw jstzlm ns ymj
xhnjshj sty yt ijwfslj ymjnw rjhmfsnxr.  Mj fqxt lfaj rj ymj qnxy tk
gttpx bmnhm N mfi wjvzjxyji, fsi N yttp r{ qjfaj.

Ymzx jsiji f if{ rjrtwfgqj yt rj; ny ijhniji r{ kzyzwj ijxyns{.



Hmfuyjw 4

Kwtr ymnx if{ sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{, fsi ufwynhzqfwq{ hmjrnxyw{, ns ymj
rtxy htruwjmjsxnaj xjsxj tk ymj yjwr, gjhfrj sjfwq{ r{ xtqj thhzufynts.
N wjfi bnym fwitzw ymtxj btwpx, xt kzqq tk ljsnzx fsi inxhwnrnsfynts,
bmnhm rtijws nsvznwjwx mfaj bwnyyjs ts ymjxj xzgojhyx.  N fyyjsiji ymj
qjhyzwjx fsi hzqynafyji ymj fhvzfnsyfshj tk ymj rjs tk xhnjshj tk ymj
zsnajwxny{, fsi N ktzsi jajs ns R. Pwjruj f lwjfy ijfq tk xtzsi xjsxj
fsi wjfq nsktwrfynts, htrgnsji, ny nx ywzj, bnym f wjuzqxnaj
um{xntlstr{ fsi rfssjwx, gzy sty ts ymfy fhhtzsy ymj qjxx afqzfgqj.  Ns
R. Bfqirfs N ktzsi f ywzj kwnjsi.  Mnx ljsyqjsjxx bfx sjajw ynslji g{
itlrfynxr, fsi mnx nsxywzhyntsx bjwj lnajs bnym fs fnw tk kwfspsjxx fsi
ltti sfyzwj ymfy gfsnxmji jajw{ nijf tk ujifsyw{.  Ns f ymtzxfsi bf{x
mj xrttymji ktw rj ymj ufym tk pstbqjilj fsi rfij ymj rtxy fgxywzxj
nsvznwnjx hqjfw fsi kfhnqj yt r{ fuuwjmjsxnts.  R{ fuuqnhfynts bfx fy
knwxy kqzhyzfynsl fsi zshjwyfns; ny lfnsji xywjslym fx N uwthjjiji fsi
xtts gjhfrj xt fwijsy fsi jfljw ymfy ymj xyfwx tkyjs inxfuujfwji ns ymj
qnlmy tk rtwsnsl bmnqxy N bfx {jy jslflji ns r{ qfgtwfytw{.

Fx N fuuqnji xt hqtxjq{, ny rf{ gj jfxnq{ htshjnaji ymfy r{ uwtlwjxx
bfx wfuni.  R{ fwitzw bfx nsijji ymj fxytsnxmrjsy tk ymj xyzijsyx, fsi
r{ uwtknhnjsh{ ymfy tk ymj rfxyjwx.  Uwtkjxxtw Pwjruj tkyjs fxpji rj,
bnym f xq{ xrnqj, mtb Htwsjqnzx Flwnuuf bjsy ts, bmnqxy R. Bfqirfs
j{uwjxxji ymj rtxy mjfwykjqy j{zqyfynts ns r{ uwtlwjxx.  Ybt {jfwx
ufxxji ns ymnx rfssjw, izwnsl bmnhm N ufni st anxny yt Ljsjaf, gzy bfx
jslflji, mjfwy fsi xtzq, ns ymj uzwxzny tk xtrj inxhtajwnjx bmnhm N
mtuji yt rfpj.  Stsj gzy ymtxj bmt mfaj j{ujwnjshji ymjr hfs htshjnaj
tk ymj jsynhjrjsyx tk xhnjshj.  Ns tymjw xyzinjx {tz lt fx kfw fx
tymjwx mfaj ltsj gjktwj {tz, fsi ymjwj nx stymnsl rtwj yt pstb; gzy ns
f xhnjsynknh uzwxzny ymjwj nx htsynszfq ktti ktw inxhtajw{ fsi btsijw.
F rnsi tk rtijwfyj hfufhny{ bmnhm hqtxjq{ uzwxzjx tsj xyzi{ rzxy
nskfqqngq{ fwwnaj fy lwjfy uwtknhnjsh{ ns ymfy xyzi{; fsi N, bmt
htsynszfqq{ xtzlmy ymj fyyfnsrjsy tk tsj tgojhy tk uzwxzny fsi bfx
xtqjq{ bwfuuji zu ns ymnx, nruwtaji xt wfuniq{ ymfy fy ymj jsi tk ybt
{jfwx N rfij xtrj inxhtajwnjx ns ymj nruwtajrjsy tk xtrj hmjrnhfq
nsxywzrjsyx, bmnhm uwthzwji rj lwjfy jxyjjr fsi firnwfynts fy ymj
zsnajwxny{.  Bmjs N mfi fwwnaji fy ymnx utnsy fsi mfi gjhtrj fx bjqq
fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj ymjtw{ fsi uwfhynhj tk sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{ fx
ijujsiji ts ymj qjxxtsx tk fs{ tk ymj uwtkjxxtwx fy Nsltqxyfiy, r{
wjxnijshj ymjwj gjnsl st qtsljw htsizhnaj yt r{ nruwtajrjsyx, N ymtzlmy
tk wjyzwsnsl yt r{ kwnjsix fsi r{ sfynaj ytbs, bmjs fs nshnijsy
mfuujsji ymfy uwtywfhyji r{ xyf{.

Tsj tk ymj umjstrjsf bmnhm mfi ujhzqnfwq{ fyywfhyji r{ fyyjsynts bfx
ymj xywzhyzwj tk ymj mzrfs kwfrj, fsi, nsijji, fs{ fsnrfq jsizji bnym
qnkj.  Bmjshj, N tkyjs fxpji r{xjqk, ini ymj uwnshnuqj tk qnkj uwthjji?
Ny bfx f gtqi vzjxynts, fsi tsj bmnhm mfx jajw gjjs htsxnijwji fx f
r{xyjw{; {jy bnym mtb rfs{ ymnslx fwj bj zuts ymj gwnsp tk gjhtrnsl
fhvzfnsyji, nk htbfwinhj tw hfwjqjxxsjxx ini sty wjxywfns tzw
nsvznwnjx.  N wjatqaji ymjxj hnwhzrxyfshjx ns r{ rnsi fsi ijyjwrnsji
ymjshjktwym yt fuuq{ r{xjqk rtwj ufwynhzqfwq{ yt ymtxj gwfshmjx tk
sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{ bmnhm wjqfyj yt um{xntqtl{.  Zsqjxx N mfi gjjs
fsnrfyji g{ fs fqrtxy xzujwsfyzwfq jsymzxnfxr, r{ fuuqnhfynts yt ymnx
xyzi{ btzqi mfaj gjjs nwpxtrj fsi fqrtxy nsytqjwfgqj.  Yt j{frnsj ymj
hfzxjx tk qnkj, bj rzxy knwxy mfaj wjhtzwxj yt ijfym.  N gjhfrj
fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj xhnjshj tk fsfytr{, gzy ymnx bfx sty xzkknhnjsy; N
rzxy fqxt tgxjwaj ymj sfyzwfq ijhf{ fsi htwwzuynts tk ymj mzrfs gti{.
Ns r{ jizhfynts r{ kfymjw mfi yfpjs ymj lwjfyjxy uwjhfzyntsx ymfy r{
rnsi xmtzqi gj nruwjxxji bnym st xzujwsfyzwfq mtwwtwx.  N it sty jajw
wjrjrgjw yt mfaj ywjrgqji fy f yfqj tk xzujwxynynts tw yt mfaj kjfwji
ymj fuufwnynts tk f xunwny.  Ifwpsjxx mfi st jkkjhy zuts r{ kfsh{, fsi
f hmzwhm{fwi bfx yt rj rjwjq{ ymj wjhjuyfhqj tk gtinjx ijuwnaji tk
qnkj, bmnhm, kwtr gjnsl ymj xjfy tk gjfzy{ fsi xywjslym, mfi gjhtrj
ktti ktw ymj btwr.  Stb N bfx qji yt j{frnsj ymj hfzxj fsi uwtlwjxx tk
ymnx ijhf{ fsi ktwhji yt xujsi if{x fsi snlmyx ns afzqyx fsi
hmfwsjq-mtzxjx.  R{ fyyjsynts bfx kn{ji zuts jajw{ tgojhy ymj rtxy
nsxzuutwyfgqj yt ymj ijqnhfh{ tk ymj mzrfs kjjqnslx.  N xfb mtb ymj
knsj ktwr tk rfs bfx ijlwfiji fsi bfxyji; N gjmjqi ymj htwwzuynts tk
ijfym xzhhjji yt ymj gqttrnsl hmjjp tk qnkj; N xfb mtb ymj btwr
nsmjwnyji ymj btsijwx tk ymj j{j fsi gwfns.  N ufzxji, j{frnsnsl fsi
fsfq{xnsl fqq ymj rnszynfj tk hfzxfynts, fx j{jruqnknji ns ymj hmfslj
kwtr qnkj yt ijfym, fsi ijfym yt qnkj, zsynq kwtr ymj rnixy tk ymnx
ifwpsjxx f xziijs qnlmy gwtpj ns zuts rj--f qnlmy xt gwnqqnfsy fsi
btsiwtzx, {jy xt xnruqj, ymfy bmnqj N gjhfrj in{{{ bnym ymj nrrjsxny{
tk ymj uwtxujhy bmnhm ny nqqzxywfyji, N bfx xzwuwnxji ymfy frtsl xt
rfs{ rjs tk ljsnzx bmt mfi inwjhyji ymjnw nsvznwnjx ytbfwix ymj xfrj
xhnjshj, ymfy N fqtsj xmtzqi gj wjxjwaji yt inxhtajw xt fxytsnxmnsl f
xjhwjy.

Wjrjrgjw, N fr sty wjhtwinsl ymj anxnts tk f rfirfs.  Ymj xzs itjx sty
rtwj hjwyfnsq{ xmnsj ns ymj mjfajsx ymfs ymfy bmnhm N stb fkknwr nx
ywzj.  Xtrj rnwfhqj rnlmy mfaj uwtizhji ny, {jy ymj xyfljx tk ymj
inxhtajw{ bjwj inxynshy fsi uwtgfgqj.  Fkyjw if{x fsi snlmyx tk
nshwjingqj qfgtzw fsi kfynlzj, N xzhhjjiji ns inxhtajwnsl ymj hfzxj tk
ljsjwfynts fsi qnkj; sf{, rtwj, N gjhfrj r{xjqk hfufgqj tk gjxytbnsl
fsnrfynts zuts qnkjqjxx rfyyjw.

Ymj fxytsnxmrjsy bmnhm N mfi fy knwxy j{ujwnjshji ts ymnx inxhtajw{
xtts lfaj uqfhj yt ijqnlmy fsi wfuyzwj.  Fkyjw xt rzhm ynrj xujsy ns
ufnskzq qfgtzw, yt fwwnaj fy tshj fy ymj xzrrny tk r{ ijxnwjx bfx ymj
rtxy lwfynk{nsl htsxzrrfynts tk r{ ytnqx.  Gzy ymnx inxhtajw{ bfx xt
lwjfy fsi tajwbmjqrnsl ymfy fqq ymj xyjux g{ bmnhm N mfi gjjs
uwtlwjxxnajq{ qji yt ny bjwj tgqnyjwfyji, fsi N gjmjqi tsq{ ymj wjxzqy.
Bmfy mfi gjjs ymj xyzi{ fsi ijxnwj tk ymj bnxjxy rjs xnshj ymj hwjfynts
tk ymj btwqi bfx stb bnymns r{ lwfxu.  Sty ymfy, qnpj f rflnh xhjsj, ny
fqq tujsji zuts rj fy tshj:  ymj nsktwrfynts N mfi tgyfnsji bfx tk f
sfyzwj wfymjw yt inwjhy r{ jsijfatzwx xt xtts fx N xmtzqi utnsy ymjr
ytbfwix ymj tgojhy tk r{ xjfwhm ymfs yt j{mngny ymfy tgojhy fqwjfi{
fhhtruqnxmji.  N bfx qnpj ymj Fwfgnfs bmt mfi gjjs gzwnji bnym ymj ijfi
fsi ktzsi f ufxxflj yt qnkj, fniji tsq{ g{ tsj lqnrrjwnsl fsi xjjrnslq{
nsjkkjhyzfq qnlmy.

N xjj g{ {tzw jfljwsjxx fsi ymj btsijw fsi mtuj bmnhm {tzw j{jx
j{uwjxx, r{ kwnjsi, ymfy {tz j{ujhy yt gj nsktwrji tk ymj xjhwjy bnym
bmnhm N fr fhvzfnsyji; ymfy hfssty gj; qnxyjs ufynjsyq{ zsynq ymj jsi
tk r{ xytw{, fsi {tz bnqq jfxnq{ ujwhjnaj bm{ N fr wjxjwaji zuts ymfy
xzgojhy.  N bnqq sty qjfi {tz ts, zslzfwiji fsi fwijsy fx N ymjs bfx,
yt {tzw ijxywzhynts fsi nskfqqngqj rnxjw{.  Qjfws kwtr rj, nk sty g{ r{
uwjhjuyx, fy qjfxy g{ r{ j{fruqj, mtb ifsljwtzx nx ymj fhvznwjrjsy tk
pstbqjilj fsi mtb rzhm mfuunjw ymfy rfs nx bmt gjqnjajx mnx sfynaj ytbs
yt gj ymj btwqi, ymfs mj bmt fxunwjx yt gjhtrj lwjfyjw ymfs mnx sfyzwj
bnqq fqqtb.

Bmjs N ktzsi xt fxytsnxmnsl f utbjw uqfhji bnymns r{ mfsix, N mjxnyfyji
f qtsl ynrj htshjwsnsl ymj rfssjw ns bmnhm N xmtzqi jruqt{ ny.
Fqymtzlm N utxxjxxji ymj hfufhny{ tk gjxytbnsl fsnrfynts, {jy yt
uwjufwj f kwfrj ktw ymj wjhjuynts tk ny, bnym fqq nyx nsywnhfhnjx tk
kngwjx, rzxhqjx, fsi ajnsx, xynqq wjrfnsji f btwp tk nshtshjnafgqj
inkknhzqy{ fsi qfgtzw.  N itzgyji fy knwxy bmjymjw N xmtzqi fyyjruy ymj
hwjfynts tk f gjnsl qnpj r{xjqk, tw tsj tk xnruqjw twlfsn{fynts; gzy r{
nrflnsfynts bfx ytt rzhm j{fqyji g{ r{ knwxy xzhhjxx yt ujwrny rj yt
itzgy tk r{ fgnqny{ yt lnaj qnkj yt fs fsnrfq fx htruqj{ fsi btsijwkzq
fx rfs.  Ymj rfyjwnfqx fy uwjxjsy bnymns r{ htrrfsi mfwiq{ fuujfwji
fijvzfyj yt xt fwiztzx fs zsijwyfpnsl, gzy N itzgyji sty ymfy N xmtzqi
zqynrfyjq{ xzhhjji.  N uwjufwji r{xjqk ktw f rzqynyzij tk wjajwxjx; r{
tujwfyntsx rnlmy gj nshjxxfsyq{ gfkkqji, fsi fy qfxy r{ btwp gj
nrujwkjhy, {jy bmjs N htsxnijwji ymj nruwtajrjsy bmnhm jajw{ if{ yfpjx
uqfhj ns xhnjshj fsi rjhmfsnhx, N bfx jshtzwflji yt mtuj r{ uwjxjsy
fyyjruyx btzqi fy qjfxy qf{ ymj ktzsifyntsx tk kzyzwj xzhhjxx.  Stw
htzqi N htsxnijw ymj rflsnyzij fsi htruqj{ny{ tk r{ uqfs fx fs{
fwlzrjsy tk nyx nruwfhynhfgnqny{.  Ny bfx bnym ymjxj kjjqnslx ymfy N
gjlfs ymj hwjfynts tk f mzrfs gjnsl.  Fx ymj rnszyjsjxx tk ymj ufwyx
ktwrji f lwjfy mnsiwfshj yt r{ xujji, N wjxtqaji, htsywfw{ yt r{ knwxy
nsyjsynts, yt rfpj ymj gjnsl tk f lnlfsynh xyfyzwj, ymfy nx yt xf{,
fgtzy jnlmy kjjy ns mjnlmy, fsi uwtutwyntsfgq{ qfwlj.  Fkyjw mfansl
ktwrji ymnx ijyjwrnsfynts fsi mfansl xujsy xtrj rtsymx ns xzhhjxxkzqq{
htqqjhynsl fsi fwwfslnsl r{ rfyjwnfqx, N gjlfs.

St tsj hfs htshjnaj ymj afwnjy{ tk kjjqnslx bmnhm gtwj rj tsbfwix, qnpj
f mzwwnhfsj, ns ymj knwxy jsymzxnfxr tk xzhhjxx.  Qnkj fsi ijfym
fuujfwji yt rj nijfq gtzsix, bmnhm N xmtzqi knwxy gwjfp ymwtzlm, fsi
utzw f ytwwjsy tk qnlmy nsyt tzw ifwp btwqi.  F sjb xujhnjx btzqi gqjxx
rj fx nyx hwjfytw fsi xtzwhj; rfs{ mfuu{ fsi j{hjqqjsy sfyzwjx btzqi
tbj ymjnw gjnsl yt rj.  St kfymjw htzqi hqfnr ymj lwfynyzij tk mnx
hmnqi xt htruqjyjq{ fx N xmtzqi ijxjwaj ymjnwx.  Uzwxznsl ymjxj
wjkqjhyntsx, N ymtzlmy ymfy nk N htzqi gjxytb fsnrfynts zuts qnkjqjxx
rfyyjw, N rnlmy ns uwthjxx tk ynrj (fqymtzlm N stb ktzsi ny nrutxxngqj)
wjsjb qnkj bmjwj ijfym mfi fuufwjsyq{ ijatyji ymj gti{ yt htwwzuynts.

Ymjxj ymtzlmyx xzuutwyji r{ xunwnyx, bmnqj N uzwxzji r{ zsijwyfpnsl
bnym zswjrnyynsl fwitzw.  R{ hmjjp mfi lwtbs ufqj bnym xyzi{, fsi r{
ujwxts mfi gjhtrj jrfhnfyji bnym htsknsjrjsy.  Xtrjynrjx, ts ymj ajw{
gwnsp tk hjwyfnsy{, N kfnqji; {jy xynqq N hqzsl yt ymj mtuj bmnhm ymj
sj{y if{ tw ymj sj{y mtzw rnlmy wjfqn{j.  Tsj xjhwjy bmnhm N fqtsj
utxxjxxji bfx ymj mtuj yt bmnhm N mfi ijinhfyji r{xjqk; fsi ymj rtts
lf{ji ts r{ rnisnlmy qfgtzwx, bmnqj, bnym zswjqf{ji fsi gwjfymqjxx
jfljwsjxx, N uzwxzji sfyzwj yt mjw mninsl-uqfhjx.  Bmt xmfqq htshjnaj
ymj mtwwtwx tk r{ xjhwjy ytnq fx N ifggqji frtsl ymj zsmfqqtbji ifrux
tk ymj lwfaj tw ytwyzwji ymj qnansl fsnrfq yt fsnrfyj ymj qnkjqjxx
hqf{?  R{ qnrgx stb ywjrgqj, fsi r{ j{jx xbnr bnym ymj wjrjrgwfshj; gzy
ymjs f wjxnxyqjxx fsi fqrtxy kwfsynh nruzqxj zwlji rj ktwbfwi; N xjjrji
yt mfaj qtxy fqq xtzq tw xjsxfynts gzy ktw ymnx tsj uzwxzny.  Ny bfx
nsijji gzy f ufxxnsl ywfshj, ymfy tsq{ rfij rj kjjq bnym wjsjbji
fhzyjsjxx xt xtts fx, ymj zssfyzwfq xynrzqzx hjfxnsl yt tujwfyj, N mfi
wjyzwsji yt r{ tqi mfgnyx.  N htqqjhyji gtsjx kwtr hmfwsjq-mtzxjx fsi
inxyzwgji, bnym uwtkfsj knsljwx, ymj ywjrjsitzx xjhwjyx tk ymj mzrfs
kwfrj.  Ns f xtqnyfw{ hmfrgjw, tw wfymjw hjqq, fy ymj ytu tk ymj mtzxj,
fsi xjufwfyji kwtr fqq ymj tymjw fufwyrjsyx g{ f lfqqjw{ fsi xyfnwhfxj,
N pjuy r{ btwpxmtu tk knqym{ hwjfynts; r{ j{jgfqqx bjwj xyfwynsl kwtr
ymjnw xthpjyx ns fyyjsinsl yt ymj ijyfnqx tk r{ jruqt{rjsy.  Ymj
inxxjhynsl wttr fsi ymj xqfzlmyjw-mtzxj kzwsnxmji rfs{ tk r{ rfyjwnfqx;
fsi tkyjs ini r{ mzrfs sfyzwj yzws bnym qtfymnsl kwtr r{ thhzufynts,
bmnqxy, xynqq zwlji ts g{ fs jfljwsjxx bmnhm ujwujyzfqq{ nshwjfxji, N
gwtzlmy r{ btwp sjfw yt f htshqzxnts.

Ymj xzrrjw rtsymx ufxxji bmnqj N bfx ymzx jslflji, mjfwy fsi xtzq, ns
tsj uzwxzny.  Ny bfx f rtxy gjfzynkzq xjfxts; sjajw ini ymj knjqix
gjxytb f rtwj uqjsynkzq mfwajxy tw ymj ansjx {njqi f rtwj qz{zwnfsy
ansyflj, gzy r{ j{jx bjwj nsxjsxngqj yt ymj hmfwrx tk sfyzwj.  Fsi ymj
xfrj kjjqnslx bmnhm rfij rj sjlqjhy ymj xhjsjx fwtzsi rj hfzxji rj fqxt
yt ktwljy ymtxj kwnjsix bmt bjwj xt rfs{ rnqjx fgxjsy, fsi bmtr N mfi
sty xjjs ktw xt qtsl f ynrj.  N psjb r{ xnqjshj inxvznjyji ymjr, fsi N
bjqq wjrjrgjwji ymj btwix tk r{ kfymjw:  "N pstb ymfy bmnqj {tz fwj
uqjfxji bnym {tzwxjqk {tz bnqq ymnsp tk zx bnym fkkjhynts, fsi bj xmfqq
mjfw wjlzqfwq{ kwtr {tz.  [tz rzxy ufwits rj nk N wjlfwi fs{
nsyjwwzuynts ns {tzw htwwjxutsijshj fx f uwttk ymfy {tzw tymjw izynjx
fwj jvzfqq{ sjlqjhyji."

N psjb bjqq ymjwjktwj bmfy btzqi gj r{ kfymjw'x kjjqnslx, gzy N htzqi
sty yjfw r{ ymtzlmyx kwtr r{ jruqt{rjsy, qtfymxtrj ns nyxjqk, gzy bmnhm
mfi yfpjs fs nwwjxnxyngqj mtqi tk r{ nrflnsfynts.  N bnxmji, fx ny
bjwj, yt uwthwfxynsfyj fqq ymfy wjqfyji yt r{ kjjqnslx tk fkkjhynts
zsynq ymj lwjfy tgojhy, bmnhm xbfqqtbji zu jajw{ mfgny tk r{ sfyzwj,
xmtzqi gj htruqjyji.

N ymjs ymtzlmy ymfy r{ kfymjw btzqi gj zsozxy nk mj fxhwngji r{ sjlqjhy
yt anhj tw kfzqynsjxx ts r{ ufwy, gzy N fr stb htsanshji ymfy mj bfx
ozxynknji ns htshjnansl ymfy N xmtzqi sty gj fqytljymjw kwjj kwtr
gqfrj.  F mzrfs gjnsl ns ujwkjhynts tzlmy fqbf{x yt uwjxjwaj f hfqr fsi
ujfhjkzq rnsi fsi sjajw yt fqqtb ufxxnts tw f ywfsxnytw{ ijxnwj yt
inxyzwg mnx ywfsvznqqny{.  N it sty ymnsp ymfy ymj uzwxzny tk pstbqjilj
nx fs j{hjuynts yt ymnx wzqj.  Nk ymj xyzi{ yt bmnhm {tz fuuq{ {tzwxjqk
mfx f yjsijsh{ yt bjfpjs {tzw fkkjhyntsx fsi yt ijxywt{ {tzw yfxyj ktw
ymtxj xnruqj uqjfxzwjx ns bmnhm st fqqt{ hfs utxxngq{ rn{, ymjs ymfy
xyzi{ nx hjwyfnsq{ zsqfbkzq, ymfy nx yt xf{, sty gjknyynsl ymj mzrfs
rnsi.  Nk ymnx wzqj bjwj fqbf{x tgxjwaji; nk st rfs fqqtbji fs{ uzwxzny
bmfyxtjajw yt nsyjwkjwj bnym ymj ywfsvznqqny{ tk mnx itrjxynh
fkkjhyntsx, Lwjjhj mfi sty gjjs jsxqfaji, Hfjxfw btzqi mfaj xufwji mnx
htzsyw{, Frjwnhf btzqi mfaj gjjs inxhtajwji rtwj lwfizfqq{, fsi ymj
jrunwjx tk Rj{nht fsi Ujwz mfi sty gjjs ijxywt{ji.

Gzy N ktwljy ymfy N fr rtwfqn{nsl ns ymj rtxy nsyjwjxynsl ufwy tk r{
yfqj, fsi {tzw qttpx wjrnsi rj yt uwthjji.  R{ kfymjw rfij st wjuwtfhm
ns mnx qjyyjwx fsi tsq{ yttp stynhj tk r{ xnqjshj g{ nsvznwnsl nsyt r{
thhzufyntsx rtwj ufwynhzqfwq{ ymfs gjktwj.  Bnsyjw, xuwnsl, fsi xzrrjw
ufxxji fbf{ izwnsl r{ qfgtzwx; gzy N ini sty bfyhm ymj gqtxxtr tw ymj
j{ufsinsl qjfajx--xnlmyx bmnhm gjktwj fqbf{x {njqiji rj xzuwjrj
ijqnlmy--xt ijjuq{ bfx N jslwtxxji ns r{ thhzufynts.  Ymj qjfajx tk
ymfy {jfw mfi bnymjwji gjktwj r{ btwp iwjb sjfw yt f hqtxj, fsi stb
jajw{ if{ xmtbji rj rtwj uqfnsq{ mtb bjqq N mfi xzhhjjiji.  Gzy r{
jsymzxnfxr bfx hmjhpji g{ r{ fs{njy{, fsi N fuujfwji wfymjw qnpj tsj
ittrji g{ xqfajw{ yt ytnq ns ymj rnsjx, tw fs{ tymjw zsbmtqjxtrj ywfij
ymfs fs fwynxy thhzunji g{ mnx kfatzwnyj jruqt{rjsy.  Jajw{ snlmy N bfx
tuuwjxxji g{ f xqtb kjajw, fsi N gjhfrj sjwatzx yt f rtxy ufnskzq
ijlwjj; ymj kfqq tk f qjfk xyfwyqji rj, fsi N xmzssji r{ kjqqtb
hwjfyzwjx fx nk N mfi gjjs lznqy{ tk f hwnrj.  Xtrjynrjx N lwjb fqfwrji
fy ymj bwjhp N ujwhjnaji ymfy N mfi gjhtrj; ymj jsjwl{ tk r{ uzwutxj
fqtsj xzxyfnsji rj:  r{ qfgtzwx btzqi xtts jsi, fsi N gjqnjaji ymfy
j{jwhnxj fsi frzxjrjsy btzqi ymjs iwnaj fbf{ nshnunjsy inxjfxj; fsi N
uwtrnxji r{xjqk gtym tk ymjxj bmjs r{ hwjfynts xmtzqi gj htruqjyj.



Hmfuyjw 5

Ny bfx ts f iwjfw{ snlmy tk Stajrgjw ymfy N gjmjqi ymj fhhtruqnxmrjsy
tk r{ ytnqx.  Bnym fs fs{njy{ ymfy fqrtxy frtzsyji yt flts{, N
htqqjhyji ymj nsxywzrjsyx tk qnkj fwtzsi rj, ymfy N rnlmy nskzxj f
xufwp tk gjnsl nsyt ymj qnkjqjxx ymnsl ymfy qf{ fy r{ kjjy.  Ny bfx
fqwjfi{ tsj ns ymj rtwsnsl; ymj wfns ufyyjwji inxrfqq{ flfnsxy ymj
ufsjx, fsi r{ hfsiqj bfx sjfwq{ gzwsy tzy, bmjs, g{ ymj lqnrrjw tk ymj
mfqk-j{ynslznxmji qnlmy, N xfb ymj izqq {jqqtb j{j tk ymj hwjfyzwj
tujs; ny gwjfymji mfwi, fsi f htsazqxnaj rtynts flnyfyji nyx qnrgx.

Mtb hfs N ijxhwngj r{ jrtyntsx fy ymnx hfyfxywtumj, tw mtb ijqnsjfyj
ymj bwjyhm bmtr bnym xzhm nsknsnyj ufnsx fsi hfwj N mfi jsijfatzwji yt
ktwr?  Mnx qnrgx bjwj ns uwtutwynts, fsi N mfi xjqjhyji mnx kjfyzwjx fx
gjfzynkzq.  Gjfzynkzq!  Lwjfy Lti!  Mnx {jqqtb xpns xhfwhjq{ htajwji
ymj btwp tk rzxhqjx fsi fwyjwnjx gjsjfym; mnx mfnw bfx tk f qzxywtzx
gqfhp, fsi kqtbnsl; mnx yjjym tk f ujfwq{ bmnyjsjxx; gzy ymjxj
qz{zwnfshjx tsq{ ktwrji f rtwj mtwwni htsywfxy bnym mnx bfyjw{ j{jx,
ymfy xjjrji fqrtxy tk ymj xfrj htqtzw fx ymj izs-bmnyj xthpjyx ns bmnhm
ymj{ bjwj xjy, mnx xmwnajqqji htruqj{nts fsi xywfnlmy gqfhp qnux.

Ymj inkkjwjsy fhhnijsyx tk qnkj fwj sty xt hmfsljfgqj fx ymj kjjqnslx
tk mzrfs sfyzwj.  N mfi btwpji mfwi ktw sjfwq{ ybt {jfwx, ktw ymj xtqj
uzwutxj tk nskzxnsl qnkj nsyt fs nsfsnrfyj gti{.  Ktw ymnx N mfi
ijuwnaji r{xjqk tk wjxy fsi mjfqym.  N mfi ijxnwji ny bnym fs fwitzw
ymfy kfw j{hjjiji rtijwfynts; gzy stb ymfy N mfi knsnxmji, ymj gjfzy{
tk ymj iwjfr afsnxmji, fsi gwjfymqjxx mtwwtw fsi inxlzxy knqqji r{
mjfwy.  Zsfgqj yt jsizwj ymj fxujhy tk ymj gjnsl N mfi hwjfyji, N
wzxmji tzy tk ymj wttr fsi htsynszji f qtsl ynrj ywfajwxnsl r{
gji-hmfrgjw, zsfgqj yt htrutxj r{ rnsi yt xqjju.  Fy qjslym qfxxnyzij
xzhhjjiji yt ymj yzrzqy N mfi gjktwj jsizwji, fsi N ymwjb r{xjqk ts ymj
gji ns r{ hqtymjx, jsijfatzwnsl yt xjjp f kjb rtrjsyx tk ktwljykzqsjxx.
Gzy ny bfx ns afns; N xqjuy, nsijji, gzy N bfx inxyzwgji g{ ymj bnqijxy
iwjfrx.  N ymtzlmy N xfb Jqn{fgjym, ns ymj gqttr tk mjfqym, bfqpnsl ns
ymj xywjjyx tk Nsltqxyfiy.  Ijqnlmyji fsi xzwuwnxji, N jrgwfhji mjw,
gzy fx N nruwnsyji ymj knwxy pnxx ts mjw qnux, ymj{ gjhfrj qnani bnym
ymj mzj tk ijfym; mjw kjfyzwjx fuujfwji yt hmfslj, fsi N ymtzlmy ymfy N
mjqi ymj htwuxj tk r{ ijfi rtymjw ns r{ fwrx; f xmwtzi jsajqtuji mjw
ktwr, fsi N xfb ymj lwfaj-btwrx hwfbqnsl ns ymj ktqix tk ymj kqfssjq.
N xyfwyji kwtr r{ xqjju bnym mtwwtw; f htqi ijb htajwji r{ ktwjmjfi, r{
yjjym hmfyyjwji, fsi jajw{ qnrg gjhfrj htsazqxji; bmjs, g{ ymj inr fsi
{jqqtb qnlmy tk ymj rtts, fx ny ktwhji nyx bf{ ymwtzlm ymj bnsitb
xmzyyjwx, N gjmjqi ymj bwjyhm--ymj rnxjwfgqj rtsxyjw bmtr N mfi
hwjfyji.  Mj mjqi zu ymj hzwyfns tk ymj gji; fsi mnx j{jx, nk j{jx ymj{
rf{ gj hfqqji, bjwj kn{ji ts rj.  Mnx ofbx tujsji, fsi mj rzyyjwji xtrj
nsfwynhzqfyj xtzsix, bmnqj f lwns bwnspqji mnx hmjjpx.  Mj rnlmy mfaj
xutpjs, gzy N ini sty mjfw; tsj mfsi bfx xywjyhmji tzy, xjjrnslq{ yt
ijyfns rj, gzy N jxhfuji fsi wzxmji itbsxyfnwx.  N yttp wjkzlj ns ymj
htzwy{fwi gjqtslnsl yt ymj mtzxj bmnhm N nsmfgnyji, bmjwj N wjrfnsji
izwnsl ymj wjxy tk ymj snlmy, bfqpnsl zu fsi itbs ns ymj lwjfyjxy
flnyfynts, qnxyjsnsl fyyjsynajq{, hfyhmnsl fsi kjfwnsl jfhm xtzsi fx nk
ny bjwj yt fsstzshj ymj fuuwtfhm tk ymj ijrtsnfhfq htwuxj yt bmnhm N
mfi xt rnxjwfgq{ lnajs qnkj.

Tm!  St rtwyfq htzqi xzuutwy ymj mtwwtw tk ymfy htzsyjsfshj.  F rzrr{
flfns jsizji bnym fsnrfynts htzqi sty gj xt mnijtzx fx ymfy bwjyhm.  N
mfi lf{ji ts mnr bmnqj zsknsnxmji; mj bfx zlq{ ymjs, gzy bmjs ymtxj
rzxhqjx fsi otnsyx bjwj wjsijwji hfufgqj tk rtynts, ny gjhfrj f ymnsl
xzhm fx jajs Ifsyj htzqi sty mfaj htshjnaji.

N ufxxji ymj snlmy bwjyhmjiq{.  Xtrjynrjx r{ uzqxj gjfy xt vznhpq{ fsi
mfwiq{ ymfy N kjqy ymj ufqunyfynts tk jajw{ fwyjw{; fy tymjwx, N sjfwq{
xfsp yt ymj lwtzsi ymwtzlm qfslztw fsi j{ywjrj bjfpsjxx.  Rnslqji bnym
ymnx mtwwtw, N kjqy ymj gnyyjwsjxx tk inxfuutnsyrjsy; iwjfrx ymfy mfi
gjjs r{ ktti fsi uqjfxfsy wjxy ktw xt qtsl f xufhj bjwj stb gjhtrj f
mjqq yt rj; fsi ymj hmfslj bfx xt wfuni, ymj tajwymwtb xt htruqjyj!

Rtwsnsl, inxrfq fsi bjy, fy qjslym ifbsji fsi inxhtajwji yt r{
xqjjuqjxx fsi fhmnsl j{jx ymj hmzwhm tk Nsltqxyfiy, nyx bmnyj xyjjuqj
fsi hqthp, bmnhm nsinhfyji ymj xn{ym mtzw.  Ymj utwyjw tujsji ymj lfyjx
tk ymj htzwy, bmnhm mfi ymfy snlmy gjjs r{ fx{qzr, fsi N nxxzji nsyt
ymj xywjjyx, ufhnsl ymjr bnym vznhp xyjux, fx nk N xtzlmy yt fatni ymj
bwjyhm bmtr N kjfwji jajw{ yzwsnsl tk ymj xywjjy btzqi uwjxjsy yt r{
anjb.  N ini sty ifwj wjyzws yt ymj fufwyrjsy bmnhm N nsmfgnyji, gzy
kjqy nrujqqji yt mzww{ ts, fqymtzlm iwjshmji g{ ymj wfns bmnhm utzwji
kwtr f gqfhp fsi htrktwyqjxx xp{.

N htsynszji bfqpnsl ns ymnx rfssjw ktw xtrj ynrj, jsijfatzwnsl g{
gtinq{ j{jwhnxj yt jfxj ymj qtfi ymfy bjnlmji zuts r{ rnsi.  N
ywfajwxji ymj xywjjyx bnymtzy fs{ hqjfw htshjuynts tk bmjwj N bfx tw
bmfy N bfx itnsl.  R{ mjfwy ufqunyfyji ns ymj xnhpsjxx tk kjfw, fsi N
mzwwnji ts bnym nwwjlzqfw xyjux, sty ifwnsl yt qttp fgtzy rj:


  Qnpj tsj bmt, ts f qtsjq{ wtfi,
  Itym bfqp ns kjfw fsi iwjfi,
  Fsi, mfansl tshj yzwsji wtzsi, bfqpx ts,
  Fsi yzwsx st rtwj mnx mjfi;
  Gjhfzxj mj pstbx f kwnlmykzq knjsi
  Itym hqtxj gjmnsi mnr ywjfi.

  [Htqjwnilj'x "Fshnjsy Rfwnsjw."]


Htsynsznsl ymzx, N hfrj fy qjslym tuutxnyj yt ymj nss fy bmnhm ymj
afwntzx inqnljshjx fsi hfwwnfljx zxzfqq{ xytuuji.  Mjwj N ufzxji, N
psjb sty bm{; gzy N wjrfnsji xtrj rnszyjx bnym r{ j{jx kn{ji ts f htfhm
ymfy bfx htrnsl ytbfwix rj kwtr ymj tymjw jsi tk ymj xywjjy.  Fx ny
iwjb sjfwjw N tgxjwaji ymfy ny bfx ymj Xbnxx inqnljshj; ny xytuuji ozxy
bmjwj N bfx xyfsinsl, fsi ts ymj ittw gjnsl tujsji, N ujwhjnaji Mjsw{
Hqjwafq, bmt, ts xjjnsl rj, nsxyfsyq{ xuwzsl tzy.  "R{ ijfw
Kwfspjsxyjns," j{hqfnrji mj, "mtb lqfi N fr yt xjj {tz!  Mtb ktwyzsfyj
ymfy {tz xmtzqi gj mjwj fy ymj ajw{ rtrjsy tk r{ fqnlmynsl!"

Stymnsl htzqi jvzfq r{ ijqnlmy ts xjjnsl Hqjwafq; mnx uwjxjshj gwtzlmy
gfhp yt r{ ymtzlmyx r{ kfymjw, Jqn{fgjym, fsi fqq ymtxj xhjsjx tk mtrj
xt ijfw yt r{ wjhtqqjhynts.  N lwfxuji mnx mfsi, fsi ns f rtrjsy ktwlty
r{ mtwwtw fsi rnxktwyzsj; N kjqy xziijsq{, fsi ktw ymj knwxy ynrj
izwnsl rfs{ rtsymx, hfqr fsi xjwjsj ot{.  N bjqhtrji r{ kwnjsi,
ymjwjktwj, ns ymj rtxy htwinfq rfssjw, fsi bj bfqpji ytbfwix r{
htqqjlj.  Hqjwafq htsynszji yfqpnsl ktw xtrj ynrj fgtzy tzw rzyzfq
kwnjsix fsi mnx tbs ltti ktwyzsj ns gjnsl ujwrnyyji yt htrj yt
Nsltqxyfiy.  "[tz rf{ jfxnq{ gjqnjaj," xfni mj, "mtb lwjfy bfx ymj
inkknhzqy{ yt ujwxzfij r{ kfymjw ymfy fqq sjhjxxfw{ pstbqjilj bfx sty
htruwnxji ns ymj stgqj fwy tk gttp-pjjunsl; fsi, nsijji, N gjqnjaj N
qjky mnr nshwjizqtzx yt ymj qfxy, ktw mnx htsxyfsy fsxbjw yt r{
zsbjfwnji jsywjfynjx bfx ymj xfrj fx ymfy tk ymj Izyhm xhmttqrfxyjw ns
Ymj Anhfw tk Bfpjknjqi:  'N mfaj yjs ymtzxfsi kqtwnsx f {jfw bnymtzy
Lwjjp, N jfy mjfwynq{ bnymtzy Lwjjp.'  Gzy mnx fkkjhynts ktw rj fy
qjslym tajwhfrj mnx inxqnpj tk qjfwsnsl, fsi mj mfx ujwrnyyji rj yt
zsijwyfpj f at{flj tk inxhtajw{ yt ymj qfsi tk pstbqjilj."

"Ny lnajx rj ymj lwjfyjxy ijqnlmy yt xjj {tz; gzy yjqq rj mtb {tz qjky
r{ kfymjw, gwtymjwx, fsi Jqn{fgjym."

"Ajw{ bjqq, fsi ajw{ mfuu{, tsq{ f qnyyqj zsjfx{ ymfy ymj{ mjfw kwtr
{tz xt xjqitr.  G{ ymj g{, N rjfs yt qjhyzwj {tz f qnyyqj zuts ymjnw
fhhtzsy r{xjqk.  Gzy, r{ ijfw Kwfspjsxyjns," htsynszji mj, xytuunsl
xmtwy fsi lf{nsl kzqq ns r{ kfhj, "N ini sty gjktwj wjrfwp mtb ajw{ nqq
{tz fuujfw; xt ymns fsi ufqj; {tz qttp fx nk {tz mfi gjjs bfyhmnsl ktw
xjajwfq snlmyx."

"[tz mfaj lzjxxji wnlmy; N mfaj qfyjq{ gjjs xt ijjuq{ jslflji ns tsj
thhzufynts ymfy N mfaj sty fqqtbji r{xjqk xzkknhnjsy wjxy, fx {tz xjj;
gzy N mtuj, N xnshjwjq{ mtuj, ymfy fqq ymjxj jruqt{rjsyx fwj stb fy fs
jsi fsi ymfy N fr fy qjslym kwjj."

N ywjrgqji j{hjxxnajq{; N htzqi sty jsizwj yt ymnsp tk, fsi kfw qjxx yt
fqqzij yt, ymj thhzwwjshjx tk ymj uwjhjinsl snlmy.  N bfqpji bnym f
vznhp ufhj, fsi bj xtts fwwnaji fy r{ htqqjlj.  N ymjs wjkqjhyji, fsi
ymj ymtzlmy rfij rj xmnajw, ymfy ymj hwjfyzwj bmtr N mfi qjky ns r{
fufwyrjsy rnlmy xynqq gj ymjwj, fqnaj fsi bfqpnsl fgtzy.  N iwjfiji yt
gjmtqi ymnx rtsxyjw, gzy N kjfwji xynqq rtwj ymfy Mjsw{ xmtzqi xjj mnr.
Jsywjfynsl mnr, ymjwjktwj, yt wjrfns f kjb rnszyjx fy ymj gtyytr tk ymj
xyfnwx, N ifwyji zu ytbfwix r{ tbs wttr.  R{ mfsi bfx fqwjfi{ ts ymj
qthp tk ymj ittw gjktwj N wjhtqqjhyji r{xjqk.  N ymjs ufzxji, fsi f
htqi xmnajwnsl hfrj tajw rj.  N ymwjb ymj ittw ktwhngq{ tujs, fx
hmnqiwjs fwj fhhzxytrji yt it bmjs ymj{ j{ujhy f xujhywj yt xyfsi ns
bfnynsl ktw ymjr ts ymj tymjw xnij; gzy stymnsl fuujfwji.  N xyjuuji
kjfwkzqq{ ns:  ymj fufwyrjsy bfx jruy{, fsi r{ gjiwttr bfx fqxt kwjji
kwtr nyx mnijtzx lzjxy.  N htzqi mfwiq{ gjqnjaj ymfy xt lwjfy f ltti
ktwyzsj htzqi mfaj gjkfqqjs rj, gzy bmjs N gjhfrj fxxzwji ymfy r{ jsjr{
mfi nsijji kqji, N hqfuuji r{ mfsix ktw ot{ fsi wfs itbs yt Hqjwafq.

Bj fxhjsiji nsyt r{ wttr, fsi ymj xjwafsy uwjxjsyq{ gwtzlmy gwjfpkfxy;
gzy N bfx zsfgqj yt htsyfns r{xjqk.  Ny bfx sty ot{ tsq{ ymfy utxxjxxji
rj; N kjqy r{ kqjxm ynslqj bnym j{hjxx tk xjsxnynajsjxx, fsi r{ uzqxj
gjfy wfuniq{.  N bfx zsfgqj yt wjrfns ktw f xnslqj nsxyfsy ns ymj xfrj
uqfhj; N ozruji tajw ymj hmfnwx, hqfuuji r{ mfsix, fsi qfzlmji fqtzi.
Hqjwafq fy knwxy fyywngzyji r{ zszxzfq xunwnyx yt ot{ ts mnx fwwnafq,
gzy bmjs mj tgxjwaji rj rtwj fyyjsynajq{, mj xfb f bnqisjxx ns r{ j{jx
ktw bmnhm mj htzqi sty fhhtzsy, fsi r{ qtzi, zswjxywfnsji, mjfwyqjxx
qfzlmyjw kwnlmyjsji fsi fxytsnxmji mnr.

"R{ ijfw Anhytw," hwnji mj, "bmfy, ktw Lti'x xfpj, nx ymj rfyyjw?  It
sty qfzlm ns ymfy rfssjw.  Mtb nqq {tz fwj!  Bmfy nx ymj hfzxj tk fqq
ymnx?"

"It sty fxp rj," hwnji N, uzyynsl r{ mfsix gjktwj r{ j{jx, ktw N
ymtzlmy N xfb ymj iwjfiji xujhywj lqnij nsyt ymj wttr; "MJ hfs yjqq.
Tm, xfaj rj!  Xfaj rj!"  N nrflnsji ymfy ymj rtsxyjw xjn{ji rj; N
xywzllqji kzwntzxq{ fsi kjqq itbs ns f kny.

Uttw Hqjwafq!  Bmfy rzxy mfaj gjjs mnx kjjqnslx?  F rjjynsl, bmnhm mj
fsynhnufyji bnym xzhm ot{, xt xywfsljq{ yzwsji yt gnyyjwsjxx.  Gzy N
bfx sty ymj bnysjxx tk mnx lwnjk, ktw N bfx qnkjqjxx fsi ini sty
wjhtajw r{ xjsxjx ktw f qtsl, qtsl ynrj.

Ymnx bfx ymj htrrjshjrjsy tk f sjwatzx kjajw bmnhm htsknsji rj ktw
xjajwfq rtsymx.  Izwnsl fqq ymfy ynrj Mjsw{ bfx r{ tsq{ szwxj.  N
fkyjwbfwix qjfwsji ymfy, pstbnsl r{ kfymjw'x fiafshji flj fsi zsknysjxx
ktw xt qtsl f otzwsj{, fsi mtb bwjyhmji r{ xnhpsjxx btzqi rfpj
Jqn{fgjym, mj xufwji ymjr ymnx lwnjk g{ htshjfqnsl ymj j{yjsy tk r{
inxtwijw.  Mj psjb ymfy N htzqi sty mfaj f rtwj pnsi fsi fyyjsynaj
szwxj ymfs mnrxjqk; fsi, knwr ns ymj mtuj mj kjqy tk r{ wjhtajw{, mj
ini sty itzgy ymfy, nsxyjfi tk itnsl mfwr, mj ujwktwrji ymj pnsijxy
fhynts ymfy mj htzqi ytbfwix ymjr.

Gzy N bfx ns wjfqny{ ajw{ nqq, fsi xzwjq{ stymnsl gzy ymj zsgtzsiji fsi
zswjrnyynsl fyyjsyntsx tk r{ kwnjsi htzqi mfaj wjxytwji rj yt qnkj.
Ymj ktwr tk ymj rtsxyjw ts bmtr N mfi gjxytbji j{nxyjshj bfx ktwjajw
gjktwj r{ j{jx, fsi N wfaji nshjxxfsyq{ htshjwsnsl mnr.  Itzgyqjxx r{
btwix xzwuwnxji Mjsw{; mj fy knwxy gjqnjaji ymjr yt gj ymj bfsijwnslx
tk r{ inxyzwgji nrflnsfynts, gzy ymj ujwynsfhny{ bnym bmnhm N
htsynszfqq{ wjhzwwji yt ymj xfrj xzgojhy ujwxzfiji mnr ymfy r{ inxtwijw
nsijji tbji nyx twnlns yt xtrj zshtrrts fsi yjwwngqj jajsy.

G{ ajw{ xqtb ijlwjjx, fsi bnym kwjvzjsy wjqfuxjx ymfy fqfwrji fsi
lwnjaji r{ kwnjsi, N wjhtajwji.  N wjrjrgjw ymj knwxy ynrj N gjhfrj
hfufgqj tk tgxjwansl tzybfwi tgojhyx bnym fs{ pnsi tk uqjfxzwj, N
ujwhjnaji ymfy ymj kfqqjs qjfajx mfi inxfuujfwji fsi ymfy ymj {tzsl
gzix bjwj xmttynsl ktwym kwtr ymj ywjjx ymfy xmfiji r{ bnsitb.  Ny bfx
f inansj xuwnsl, fsi ymj xjfxts htsywngzyji lwjfyq{ yt r{
htsafqjxhjshj.  N kjqy fqxt xjsynrjsyx tk ot{ fsi fkkjhynts wjanaj ns
r{ gtxtr; r{ lqttr inxfuujfwji, fsi ns f xmtwy ynrj N gjhfrj fx
hmjjwkzq fx gjktwj N bfx fyyfhpji g{ ymj kfyfq ufxxnts.

"Ijfwjxy Hqjwafq," j{hqfnrji N, "mtb pnsi, mtb ajw{ ltti {tz fwj yt rj.
Ymnx bmtqj bnsyjw, nsxyjfi tk gjnsl xujsy ns xyzi{, fx {tz uwtrnxji
{tzwxjqk, mfx gjjs htsxzrji ns r{ xnhp wttr.  Mtb xmfqq N jajw wjuf{
{tz?  N kjjq ymj lwjfyjxy wjrtwxj ktw ymj inxfuutnsyrjsy tk bmnhm N
mfaj gjjs ymj thhfxnts, gzy {tz bnqq ktwlnaj rj."

"[tz bnqq wjuf{ rj jsynwjq{ nk {tz it sty inxhtrutxj {tzwxjqk, gzy ljy
bjqq fx kfxy fx {tz hfs; fsi xnshj {tz fuujfw ns xzhm ltti xunwnyx, N
rf{ xujfp yt {tz ts tsj xzgojhy, rf{ N sty?"

N ywjrgqji.  Tsj xzgojhy!  Bmfy htzqi ny gj?  Htzqi mj fqqzij yt fs
tgojhy ts bmtr N ifwji sty jajs ymnsp?  "Htrutxj {tzwxjqk," xfni
Hqjwafq, bmt tgxjwaji r{ hmfslj tk htqtzw, "N bnqq sty rjsynts ny nk ny
flnyfyjx {tz; gzy {tzw kfymjw fsi htzxns btzqi gj ajw{ mfuu{ nk ymj{
wjhjnaji f qjyyjw kwtr {tz ns {tzw tbs mfsibwnynsl.  Ymj{ mfwiq{ pstb
mtb nqq {tz mfaj gjjs fsi fwj zsjfx{ fy {tzw qtsl xnqjshj."

"Nx ymfy fqq, r{ ijfw Mjsw{?  Mtb htzqi {tz xzuutxj ymfy r{ knwxy
ymtzlmy btzqi sty kq{ ytbfwix ymtxj ijfw, ijfw kwnjsix bmtr N qtaj fsi
bmt fwj xt ijxjwansl tk r{ qtaj?"

"Nk ymnx nx {tzw uwjxjsy yjrujw, r{ kwnjsi, {tz bnqq ujwmfux gj lqfi yt
xjj f qjyyjw ymfy mfx gjjs q{nsl mjwj xtrj if{x ktw {tz; ny nx kwtr
{tzw htzxns, N gjqnjaj."



Hmfuyjw 6

Hqjwafq ymjs uzy ymj ktqqtbnsl qjyyjw nsyt r{ mfsix.  Ny bfx kwtr r{
tbs Jqn{fgjym:

"R{ ijfwjxy Htzxns,

"[tz mfaj gjjs nqq, ajw{ nqq, fsi jajs ymj htsxyfsy qjyyjwx tk ijfw
pnsi Mjsw{ fwj sty xzkknhnjsy yt wjfxxzwj rj ts {tzw fhhtzsy.  [tz fwj
ktwgniijs yt bwnyj--yt mtqi f ujs; {jy tsj btwi kwtr {tz, ijfw Anhytw,
nx sjhjxxfw{ yt hfqr tzw fuuwjmjsxntsx.  Ktw f qtsl ynrj N mfaj ymtzlmy
ymfy jfhm utxy btzqi gwnsl ymnx qnsj, fsi r{ ujwxzfxntsx mfaj
wjxywfnsji r{ zshqj kwtr zsijwyfpnsl f otzwsj{ yt Nsltqxyfiy.  N mfaj
uwjajsyji mnx jshtzsyjwnsl ymj nshtsajsnjshjx fsi ujwmfux ifsljwx tk xt
qtsl f otzwsj{, {jy mtb tkyjs mfaj N wjlwjyyji sty gjnsl fgqj yt
ujwktwr ny r{xjqk!  N knlzwj yt r{xjqk ymfy ymj yfxp tk fyyjsinsl ts
{tzw xnhpgji mfx ijatqaji ts xtrj rjwhjsfw{ tqi szwxj, bmt htzqi sjajw
lzjxx {tzw bnxmjx stw rnsnxyjw yt ymjr bnym ymj hfwj fsi fkkjhynts tk
{tzw uttw htzxns.  [jy ymfy nx tajw stb:  Hqjwafq bwnyjx ymfy nsijji
{tz fwj ljyynsl gjyyjw.  N jfljwq{ mtuj ymfy {tz bnqq htsknwr ymnx
nsyjqqnljshj xtts ns {tzw tbs mfsibwnynsl.

"Ljy bjqq--fsi wjyzws yt zx.  [tz bnqq knsi f mfuu{, hmjjwkzq mtrj fsi
kwnjsix bmt qtaj {tz ijfwq{.  [tzw kfymjw'x mjfqym nx anltwtzx, fsi mj
fxpx gzy yt xjj {tz, gzy yt gj fxxzwji ymfy {tz fwj bjqq; fsi sty f
hfwj bnqq jajw hqtzi mnx gjsjatqjsy htzsyjsfshj.  Mtb uqjfxji {tz btzqi
gj yt wjrfwp ymj nruwtajrjsy tk tzw Jwsjxy!  Mj nx stb xn{yjjs fsi kzqq
tk fhynany{ fsi xunwny.  Mj nx ijxnwtzx yt gj f ywzj Xbnxx fsi yt jsyjw
nsyt ktwjnls xjwanhj, gzy bj hfssty ufwy bnym mnr, fy qjfxy zsynq mnx
jqijw gwtymjw wjyzwsx yt zx.  R{ zshqj nx sty uqjfxji bnym ymj nijf tk
f rnqnyfw{ hfwjjw ns f inxyfsy htzsyw{, gzy Jwsjxy sjajw mfi {tzw
utbjwx tk fuuqnhfynts.  Mj qttpx zuts xyzi{ fx fs tintzx kjyyjw; mnx
ynrj nx xujsy ns ymj tujs fnw, hqnrgnsl ymj mnqqx tw wtbnsl ts ymj
qfpj.  N kjfw ymfy mj bnqq gjhtrj fs niqjw zsqjxx bj {njqi ymj utnsy
fsi ujwrny mnr yt jsyjw ts ymj uwtkjxxnts bmnhm mj mfx xjqjhyji.

"Qnyyqj fqyjwfynts, j{hjuy ymj lwtbym tk tzw ijfw hmnqiwjs, mfx yfpjs
uqfhj xnshj {tz qjky zx.  Ymj gqzj qfpj fsi xstb-hqfi rtzsyfnsx--ymj{
sjajw hmfslj; fsi N ymnsp tzw uqfhni mtrj fsi tzw htsyjsyji mjfwyx fwj
wjlzqfyji g{ ymj xfrj nrrzyfgqj qfbx.  R{ ywnkqnsl thhzufyntsx yfpj zu
r{ ynrj fsi frzxj rj, fsi N fr wjbfwiji ktw fs{ j{jwyntsx g{ xjjnsl
stsj gzy mfuu{, pnsi kfhjx fwtzsi rj.  Xnshj {tz qjky zx, gzy tsj
hmfslj mfx yfpjs uqfhj ns tzw qnyyqj mtzxjmtqi.  It {tz wjrjrgjw ts
bmfy thhfxnts Ozxynsj Rtwny{ jsyjwji tzw kfrnq{?  Uwtgfgq{ {tz it sty;
N bnqq wjqfyj mjw mnxytw{, ymjwjktwj ns f kjb btwix.  Rfifrj Rtwny{,
mjw rtymjw, bfx f bnitb bnym ktzw hmnqiwjs, tk bmtr Ozxynsj bfx ymj
ymnwi.  Ymnx lnwq mfi fqbf{x gjjs ymj kfatzwnyj tk mjw kfymjw, gzy
ymwtzlm f xywfslj ujwajwxny{, mjw rtymjw htzqi sty jsizwj mjw, fsi
fkyjw ymj ijfym tk R. Rtwny{, ywjfyji mjw ajw{ nqq.  R{ fzsy tgxjwaji
ymnx, fsi bmjs Ozxynsj bfx ybjqaj {jfwx tk flj, uwjafnqji ts mjw rtymjw
yt fqqtb mjw yt qnaj fy tzw mtzxj.  Ymj wjuzgqnhfs nsxynyzyntsx tk tzw
htzsyw{ mfaj uwtizhji xnruqjw fsi mfuunjw rfssjwx ymfs ymtxj bmnhm
uwjafnq ns ymj lwjfy rtsfwhmnjx ymfy xzwwtzsi ny.  Mjshj ymjwj nx qjxx
inxynshynts gjybjjs ymj xjajwfq hqfxxjx tk nyx nsmfgnyfsyx; fsi ymj
qtbjw twijwx, gjnsl sjnymjw xt uttw stw xt ijxunxji, ymjnw rfssjwx fwj
rtwj wjknsji fsi rtwfq.  F xjwafsy ns Ljsjaf itjx sty rjfs ymj xfrj
ymnsl fx f xjwafsy ns Kwfshj fsi Jslqfsi.  Ozxynsj, ymzx wjhjnaji ns
tzw kfrnq{, qjfwsji ymj izynjx tk f xjwafsy, f htsinynts bmnhm, ns tzw
ktwyzsfyj htzsyw{, itjx sty nshqzij ymj nijf tk nlstwfshj fsi f
xfhwnknhj tk ymj inlsny{ tk f mzrfs gjnsl.

"Ozxynsj, {tz rf{ wjrjrgjw, bfx f lwjfy kfatzwnyj tk {tzwx; fsi N
wjhtqqjhy {tz tshj wjrfwpji ymfy nk {tz bjwj ns fs nqq mzrtzw, tsj
lqfshj kwtr Ozxynsj htzqi inxxnufyj ny, ktw ymj xfrj wjfxts ymfy
Fwntxyt lnajx htshjwsnsl ymj gjfzy{ tk Fsljqnhf--xmj qttpji xt
kwfsp-mjfwyji fsi mfuu{.  R{ fzsy htshjnaji f lwjfy fyyfhmrjsy ktw mjw,
g{ bmnhm xmj bfx nsizhji yt lnaj mjw fs jizhfynts xzujwntw yt ymfy
bmnhm xmj mfi fy knwxy nsyjsiji.  Ymnx gjsjkny bfx kzqq{ wjufni;
Ozxynsj bfx ymj rtxy lwfyjkzq qnyyqj hwjfyzwj ns ymj btwqi:  N it sty
rjfs ymfy xmj rfij fs{ uwtkjxxntsx N sjajw mjfwi tsj ufxx mjw qnux, gzy
{tz htzqi xjj g{ mjw j{jx ymfy xmj fqrtxy fitwji mjw uwtyjhywjxx.
Fqymtzlm mjw inxutxnynts bfx lf{ fsi ns rfs{ wjxujhyx nshtsxnijwfyj,
{jy xmj ufni ymj lwjfyjxy fyyjsynts yt jajw{ ljxyzwj tk r{ fzsy.  Xmj
ymtzlmy mjw ymj rtijq tk fqq j{hjqqjshj fsi jsijfatzwji yt nrnyfyj mjw
umwfxjtqtl{ fsi rfssjwx, xt ymfy jajs stb xmj tkyjs wjrnsix rj tk mjw.

"Bmjs r{ ijfwjxy fzsy inji jajw{ tsj bfx ytt rzhm thhzunji ns ymjnw tbs
lwnjk yt stynhj uttw Ozxynsj, bmt mfi fyyjsiji mjw izwnsl mjw nqqsjxx
bnym ymj rtxy fs{ntzx fkkjhynts.  Uttw Ozxynsj bfx ajw{ nqq; gzy tymjw
ywnfqx bjwj wjxjwaji ktw mjw.

"Tsj g{ tsj, mjw gwtymjwx fsi xnxyjw inji; fsi mjw rtymjw, bnym ymj
j{hjuynts tk mjw sjlqjhyji ifzlmyjw, bfx qjky hmnqiqjxx.  Ymj
htsxhnjshj tk ymj btrfs bfx ywtzgqji; xmj gjlfs yt ymnsp ymfy ymj
ijfymx tk mjw kfatzwnyjx bfx f oziljrjsy kwtr mjfajs yt hmfxynxj mjw
ufwynfqny{.  Xmj bfx f Wtrfs Hfymtqnh; fsi N gjqnjaj mjw htskjxxtw
htsknwrji ymj nijf bmnhm xmj mfi htshjnaji.  Fhhtwinslq{, f kjb rtsymx
fkyjw {tzw ijufwyzwj ktw Nsltqxyfiy, Ozxynsj bfx hfqqji mtrj g{ mjw
wjujsyfsy rtymjw.  Uttw lnwq!  Xmj bjuy bmjs xmj vznyyji tzw mtzxj; xmj
bfx rzhm fqyjwji xnshj ymj ijfym tk r{ fzsy; lwnjk mfi lnajs xtkysjxx
fsi f bnssnsl rnqisjxx yt mjw rfssjwx, bmnhm mfi gjktwj gjjs wjrfwpfgqj
ktw anafhny{.  Stw bfx mjw wjxnijshj fy mjw rtymjw'x mtzxj tk f sfyzwj
yt wjxytwj mjw lfnjy{.  Ymj uttw btrfs bfx ajw{ afhnqqfynsl ns mjw
wjujsyfshj.  Xmj xtrjynrjx gjllji Ozxynsj yt ktwlnaj mjw zspnsisjxx,
gzy rzhm tkyjsjw fhhzxji mjw tk mfansl hfzxji ymj ijfymx tk mjw
gwtymjwx fsi xnxyjw.  Ujwujyzfq kwjyynsl fy qjslym ymwjb Rfifrj Rtwny{
nsyt f ijhqnsj, bmnhm fy knwxy nshwjfxji mjw nwwnyfgnqny{, gzy xmj nx
stb fy ujfhj ktw jajw.  Xmj inji ts ymj knwxy fuuwtfhm tk htqi bjfymjw,
fy ymj gjlnssnsl tk ymnx qfxy bnsyjw.  Ozxynsj mfx ozxy wjyzwsji yt zx;
fsi N fxxzwj {tz N qtaj mjw yjsijwq{.  Xmj nx ajw{ hqjajw fsi ljsyqj,
fsi j{ywjrjq{ uwjyy{; fx N rjsyntsji gjktwj, mjw rnjs fsi mjw
j{uwjxxnts htsynszfqq{ wjrnsi rj tk r{ ijfw fzsy.

"N rzxy xf{ fqxt f kjb btwix yt {tz, r{ ijfw htzxns, tk qnyyqj ifwqnsl
Bnqqnfr.  N bnxm {tz htzqi xjj mnr; mj nx ajw{ yfqq tk mnx flj, bnym
xbjjy qfzlmnsl gqzj j{jx, ifwp j{jqfxmjx, fsi hzwqnsl mfnw.  Bmjs mj
xrnqjx, ybt qnyyqj inruqjx fuujfw ts jfhm hmjjp, bmnhm fwj wtx{ bnym
mjfqym.  Mj mfx fqwjfi{ mfi tsj tw ybt qnyyqj BNAJX, gzy Qtznxf Gnwts
nx mnx kfatzwnyj, f uwjyy{ qnyyqj lnwq tk knaj {jfwx tk flj.

"Stb, ijfw Anhytw, N ifwj xf{ {tz bnxm yt gj nsizqlji ns f qnyyqj
ltxxnu htshjwsnsl ymj ltti ujtuqj tk Ljsjaf.  Ymj uwjyy{ Rnxx Rfsxknjqi
mfx fqwjfi{ wjhjnaji ymj htslwfyzqfytw{ anxnyx ts mjw fuuwtfhmnsl
rfwwnflj bnym f {tzsl Jslqnxmrfs, Otms Rjqgtzwsj, Jxv.  Mjw zlq{
xnxyjw, Rfsts, rfwwnji R. Izanqqfwi, ymj wnhm gfspjw, qfxy fzyzrs. [tzw
kfatzwnyj xhmttqkjqqtb, Qtznx Rfstnw, mfx xzkkjwji xjajwfq rnxktwyzsjx
xnshj ymj ijufwyzwj tk Hqjwafq kwtr Ljsjaf.  Gzy mj mfx fqwjfi{
wjhtajwji mnx xunwnyx, fsi nx wjutwyji yt gj ts ymj utnsy tk rfww{nsl f
qnajq{ uwjyy{ Kwjshmbtrfs, Rfifrj Yfajwsnjw.  Xmj nx f bnitb, fsi rzhm
tqijw ymfs Rfstnw; gzy xmj nx ajw{ rzhm firnwji, fsi f kfatzwnyj bnym
jajw{gti{.

"N mfaj bwnyyjs r{xjqk nsyt gjyyjw xunwnyx, ijfw htzxns; gzy r{ fs{njy{
wjyzwsx zuts rj fx N htshqzij.  Bwnyj, ijfwjxy Anhytw,--tsj qnsj--tsj
btwi bnqq gj f gqjxxnsl yt zx.  Yjs ymtzxfsi ymfspx yt Mjsw{ ktw mnx
pnsisjxx, mnx fkkjhynts, fsi mnx rfs{ qjyyjwx; bj fwj xnshjwjq{
lwfyjkzq.  Finjz!  r{ htzxns; yfpj hfwj tk {tzw xjqk; fsi, N jsywjfy
{tz, bwnyj!

"Jqn{fgjym Qfajs{f.

"Ljsjaf, Rfwhm 18, 17--."


"Ijfw, ijfw Jqn{fgjym!" N j{hqfnrji, bmjs N mfi wjfi mjw qjyyjw:  "N
bnqq bwnyj nsxyfsyq{ fsi wjqnjaj ymjr kwtr ymj fs{njy{ ymj{ rzxy kjjq."
N bwtyj, fsi ymnx j{jwynts lwjfyq{ kfynlzji rj; gzy r{ htsafqjxhjshj
mfi htrrjshji, fsi uwthjjiji wjlzqfwq{.  Ns fstymjw ktwysnlmy N bfx
fgqj yt qjfaj r{ hmfrgjw.

Tsj tk r{ knwxy izynjx ts r{ wjhtajw{ bfx yt nsywtizhj Hqjwafq yt ymj
xjajwfq uwtkjxxtwx tk ymj zsnajwxny{.  Ns itnsl ymnx, N zsijwbjsy f
pnsi tk wtzlm zxflj, nqq gjknyynsl ymj btzsix ymfy r{ rnsi mfi
xzxyfnsji.  Jajw xnshj ymj kfyfq snlmy, ymj jsi tk r{ qfgtzwx, fsi ymj
gjlnssnsl tk r{ rnxktwyzsjx, N mfi htshjnaji f antqjsy fsynufym{ jajs
yt ymj sfrj tk sfyzwfq umnqtxtum{.  Bmjs N bfx tymjwbnxj vznyj wjxytwji
yt mjfqym, ymj xnlmy tk f hmjrnhfq nsxywzrjsy btzqi wjsjb fqq ymj flts{
tk r{ sjwatzx x{ruytrx.  Mjsw{ xfb ymnx, fsi mfi wjrtaji fqq r{
fuufwfyzx kwtr r{ anjb.  Mj mfi fqxt hmfslji r{ fufwyrjsy; ktw mj
ujwhjnaji ymfy N mfi fhvznwji f inxqnpj ktw ymj wttr bmnhm mfi
uwjantzxq{ gjjs r{ qfgtwfytw{.  Gzy ymjxj hfwjx tk Hqjwafq bjwj rfij tk
st fafnq bmjs N anxnyji ymj uwtkjxxtwx.  R. Bfqirfs nskqnhyji ytwyzwj
bmjs mj uwfnxji, bnym pnsisjxx fsi bfwrym, ymj fxytsnxmnsl uwtlwjxx N
mfi rfij ns ymj xhnjshjx.  Mj xtts ujwhjnaji ymfy N inxqnpji ymj
xzgojhy; gzy sty lzjxxnsl ymj wjfq hfzxj, mj fyywngzyji r{ kjjqnslx yt
rtijxy{, fsi hmfslji ymj xzgojhy kwtr r{ nruwtajrjsy, yt ymj xhnjshj
nyxjqk, bnym f ijxnwj, fx N janijsyq{ xfb, tk iwfbnsl rj tzy.  Bmfy
htzqi N it?  Mj rjfsy yt uqjfxj, fsi mj ytwrjsyji rj.  N kjqy fx nk mj
mfi uqfhji hfwjkzqq{, tsj g{ tsj, ns r{ anjb ymtxj nsxywzrjsyx bmnhm
bjwj yt gj fkyjwbfwix zxji ns uzyynsl rj yt f xqtb fsi hwzjq ijfym.  N
bwnymji zsijw mnx btwix, {jy ifwji sty j{mngny ymj ufns N kjqy.
Hqjwafq, bmtxj j{jx fsi kjjqnslx bjwj fqbf{x vznhp ns inxhjwsnsl ymj
xjsxfyntsx tk tymjwx, ijhqnsji ymj xzgojhy, fqqjlnsl, ns j{hzxj, mnx
ytyfq nlstwfshj; fsi ymj htsajwxfynts yttp f rtwj ljsjwfq yzws.  N
ymfspji r{ kwnjsi kwtr r{ mjfwy, gzy N ini sty xujfp.  N xfb uqfnsq{
ymfy mj bfx xzwuwnxji, gzy mj sjajw fyyjruyji yt iwfb r{ xjhwjy kwtr
rj; fsi fqymtzlm N qtaji mnr bnym f rn{yzwj tk fkkjhynts fsi wjajwjshj
ymfy psjb st gtzsix, {jy N htzqi sjajw ujwxzfij r{xjqk yt htsknij ns
mnr ymfy jajsy bmnhm bfx xt tkyjs uwjxjsy yt r{ wjhtqqjhynts, gzy bmnhm
N kjfwji ymj ijyfnq yt fstymjw btzqi tsq{ nruwjxx rtwj ijjuq{.

R. Pwjruj bfx sty jvzfqq{ ithnqj; fsi ns r{ htsinynts fy ymfy ynrj, tk
fqrtxy nsxzuutwyfgqj xjsxnynajsjxx, mnx mfwxm gqzsy jshtrnzrx lfaj rj
jajs rtwj ufns ymfs ymj gjsjatqjsy fuuwtgfynts tk R. Bfqirfs.  "I--s
ymj kjqqtb!" hwnji mj; "bm{, R. Hqjwafq, N fxxzwj {tz mj mfx tzyxywnuy
zx fqq.  F{, xyfwj nk {tz uqjfxj; gzy ny nx sjajwymjqjxx ywzj.  F
{tzslxyjw bmt, gzy f kjb {jfwx flt, gjqnjaji ns Htwsjqnzx Flwnuuf fx
knwrq{ fx ns ymj ltxujq, mfx stb xjy mnrxjqk fy ymj mjfi tk ymj
zsnajwxny{; fsi nk mj nx sty xtts uzqqji itbs, bj xmfqq fqq gj tzy tk
htzsyjsfshj.--F{, f{," htsynszji mj, tgxjwansl r{ kfhj j{uwjxxnaj tk
xzkkjwnsl, "R. Kwfspjsxyjns nx rtijxy; fs j{hjqqjsy vzfqny{ ns f {tzsl
rfs.  [tzsl rjs xmtzqi gj inkknijsy tk ymjrxjqajx, {tz pstb, R.
Hqjwafq:  N bfx r{xjqk bmjs {tzsl; gzy ymfy bjfwx tzy ns f ajw{ xmtwy
ynrj."

R. Pwjruj mfi stb htrrjshji fs jzqtl{ ts mnrxjqk, bmnhm mfuunq{ yzwsji
ymj htsajwxfynts kwtr f xzgojhy ymfy bfx xt fsst{nsl yt rj.

Hqjwafq mfi sjajw x{rufymn{ji ns r{ yfxyjx ktw sfyzwfq xhnjshj; fsi mnx
qnyjwfw{ uzwxznyx inkkjwji bmtqq{ kwtr ymtxj bmnhm mfi thhzunji rj.  Mj
hfrj yt ymj zsnajwxny{ bnym ymj ijxnls tk rfpnsl mnrxjqk htruqjyj
rfxyjw tk ymj twnjsyfq qfslzfljx, fsi ymzx mj xmtzqi tujs f knjqi ktw
ymj uqfs tk qnkj mj mfi rfwpji tzy ktw mnrxjqk.  Wjxtqaji yt uzwxzj st
nslqtwntzx hfwjjw, mj yzwsji mnx j{jx ytbfwi ymj Jfxy, fx fkktwinsl
xhtuj ktw mnx xunwny tk jsyjwuwnxj.  Ymj Ujwxnfs, Fwfgnh, fsi Xfsxpwny
qfslzfljx jslflji mnx fyyjsynts, fsi N bfx jfxnq{ nsizhji yt jsyjw ts
ymj xfrj xyzinjx.  Niqjsjxx mfi jajw gjjs nwpxtrj yt rj, fsi stb ymfy N
bnxmji yt kq{ kwtr wjkqjhynts, fsi mfyji r{ ktwrjw xyzinjx, N kjqy
lwjfy wjqnjk ns gjnsl ymj kjqqtb-uzunq bnym r{ kwnjsi, fsi ktzsi sty
tsq{ nsxywzhynts gzy htsxtqfynts ns ymj btwpx tk ymj twnjsyfqnxyx.  N
ini sty, qnpj mnr, fyyjruy f hwnynhfq pstbqjilj tk ymjnw infqjhyx, ktw
N ini sty htsyjruqfyj rfpnsl fs{ tymjw zxj tk ymjr ymfs yjrutwfw{
frzxjrjsy.  N wjfi rjwjq{ yt zsijwxyfsi ymjnw rjfsnsl, fsi ymj{ bjqq
wjufni r{ qfgtzwx.  Ymjnw rjqfshmtq{ nx xttymnsl, fsi ymjnw ot{
jqjafynsl, yt f ijlwjj N sjajw j{ujwnjshji ns xyzi{nsl ymj fzymtwx tk
fs{ tymjw htzsyw{.  Bmjs {tz wjfi ymjnw bwnynslx, qnkj fuujfwx yt
htsxnxy ns f bfwr xzs fsi f lfwijs tk wtxjx,--ns ymj xrnqjx fsi kwtbsx
tk f kfnw jsjr{, fsi ymj knwj ymfy htsxzrjx {tzw tbs mjfwy.  Mtb
inkkjwjsy kwtr ymj rfsq{ fsi mjwtnhfq utjyw{ tk Lwjjhj fsi Wtrj!

Xzrrjw ufxxji fbf{ ns ymjxj thhzufyntsx, fsi r{ wjyzws yt Ljsjaf bfx
kn{ji ktw ymj qfyyjw jsi tk fzyzrs; gzy gjnsl ijqf{ji g{ xjajwfq
fhhnijsyx, bnsyjw fsi xstb fwwnaji, ymj wtfix bjwj ijjrji nrufxxfgqj,
fsi r{ otzwsj{ bfx wjyfwiji zsynq ymj jsxznsl xuwnsl.  N kjqy ymnx
ijqf{ ajw{ gnyyjwq{; ktw N qtslji yt xjj r{ sfynaj ytbs fsi r{ gjqtaji
kwnjsix.  R{ wjyzws mfi tsq{ gjjs ijqf{ji xt qtsl, kwtr fs
zsbnqqnslsjxx yt qjfaj Hqjwafq ns f xywfslj uqfhj, gjktwj mj mfi gjhtrj
fhvzfnsyji bnym fs{ tk nyx nsmfgnyfsyx.  Ymj bnsyjw, mtbjajw, bfx xujsy
hmjjwkzqq{; fsi fqymtzlm ymj xuwnsl bfx zshtrrtsq{ qfyj, bmjs ny hfrj
nyx gjfzy{ htrujsxfyji ktw nyx inqfytwnsjxx.

Ymj rtsym tk Rf{ mfi fqwjfi{ htrrjshji, fsi N j{ujhyji ymj qjyyjw ifnq{
bmnhm bfx yt kn{ ymj ifyj tk r{ ijufwyzwj, bmjs Mjsw{ uwtutxji f
ujijxywnfs ytzw ns ymj jsanwtsx tk Nsltqxyfiy, ymfy N rnlmy gni f
ujwxtsfq kfwjbjqq yt ymj htzsyw{ N mfi xt qtsl nsmfgnyji.  N fhhjiji
bnym uqjfxzwj yt ymnx uwtutxnynts:  N bfx ktsi tk j{jwhnxj, fsi Hqjwafq
mfi fqbf{x gjjs r{ kfatzwnyj htrufsnts ns ymj wfrgqj tk ymnx sfyzwj
ymfy N mfi yfpjs frtsl ymj xhjsjx tk r{ sfynaj htzsyw{.

Bj ufxxji f ktwysnlmy ns ymjxj ujwfrgzqfyntsx:  r{ mjfqym fsi xunwnyx
mfi qtsl gjjs wjxytwji, fsi ymj{ lfnsji fiinyntsfq xywjslym kwtr ymj
xfqzgwntzx fnw N gwjfymji, ymj sfyzwfq nshnijsyx tk tzw uwtlwjxx, fsi
ymj htsajwxfynts tk r{ kwnjsi.  Xyzi{ mfi gjktwj xjhqziji rj kwtr ymj
nsyjwhtzwxj tk r{ kjqqtb-hwjfyzwjx, fsi wjsijwji rj zsxthnfq; gzy
Hqjwafq hfqqji ktwym ymj gjyyjw kjjqnslx tk r{ mjfwy; mj flfns yfzlmy
rj yt qtaj ymj fxujhy tk sfyzwj, fsi ymj hmjjwkzq kfhjx tk hmnqiwjs.
J{hjqqjsy kwnjsi!  mtb xnshjwjq{ {tz ini qtaj rj, fsi jsijfatzw yt
jqjafyj r{ rnsi zsynq ny bfx ts f qjajq bnym {tzw tbs.  F xjqknxm
uzwxzny mfi hwfruji fsi sfwwtbji rj, zsynq {tzw ljsyqjsjxx fsi
fkkjhynts bfwrji fsi tujsji r{ xjsxjx; N gjhfrj ymj xfrj mfuu{ hwjfyzwj
bmt, f kjb {jfwx flt, qtaji fsi gjqtaji g{ fqq, mfi st xtwwtb tw hfwj.
Bmjs mfuu{, nsfsnrfyj sfyzwj mfi ymj utbjw tk gjxytbnsl ts rj ymj rtxy
ijqnlmykzq xjsxfyntsx.  F xjwjsj xp{ fsi ajwifsy knjqix knqqji rj bnym
jhxyfx{.  Ymj uwjxjsy xjfxts bfx nsijji inansj; ymj kqtbjwx tk xuwnsl
gqttrji ns ymj mjiljx, bmnqj ymtxj tk xzrrjw bjwj fqwjfi{ ns gzi.  N
bfx zsinxyzwgji g{ ymtzlmyx bmnhm izwnsl ymj uwjhjinsl {jfw mfi uwjxxji
zuts rj, stybnymxyfsinsl r{ jsijfatzwx yt ymwtb ymjr tkk, bnym fs
nsanshngqj gzwijs.

Mjsw{ wjotnhji ns r{ lfnjy{, fsi xnshjwjq{ x{rufymnxji ns r{ kjjqnslx:
mj j{jwyji mnrxjqk yt frzxj rj, bmnqj mj j{uwjxxji ymj xjsxfyntsx ymfy
knqqji mnx xtzq.  Ymj wjxtzwhjx tk mnx rnsi ts ymnx thhfxnts bjwj ywzq{
fxytsnxmnsl:  mnx htsajwxfynts bfx kzqq tk nrflnsfynts; fsi ajw{ tkyjs,
ns nrnyfynts tk ymj Ujwxnfs fsi Fwfgnh bwnyjwx, mj nsajsyji yfqjx tk
btsijwkzq kfsh{ fsi ufxxnts.  Fy tymjw ynrjx mj wjujfyji r{ kfatzwnyj
utjrx, tw iwjb rj tzy nsyt fwlzrjsyx, bmnhm mj xzuutwyji bnym lwjfy
nsljszny{.  Bj wjyzwsji yt tzw htqqjlj ts f Xzsif{ fkyjwstts:  ymj
ujfxfsyx bjwj ifshnsl, fsi jajw{ tsj bj rjy fuujfwji lf{ fsi mfuu{.  R{
tbs xunwnyx bjwj mnlm, fsi N gtzsiji fqtsl bnym kjjqnslx tk zsgwniqji
ot{ fsi mnqfwny{.



Hmfuyjw 7

Ts r{ wjyzws, N ktzsi ymj ktqqtbnsl qjyyjw kwtr r{ kfymjw:--


"R{ ijfw Anhytw,

"[tz mfaj uwtgfgq{ bfnyji nrufynjsyq{ ktw f qjyyjw yt kn{ ymj ifyj tk
{tzw wjyzws yt zx; fsi N bfx fy knwxy yjruyji yt bwnyj tsq{ f kjb
qnsjx, rjwjq{ rjsyntsnsl ymj if{ ts bmnhm N xmtzqi j{ujhy {tz.  Gzy
ymfy btzqi gj f hwzjq pnsisjxx, fsi N ifwj sty it ny.  Bmfy btzqi gj
{tzw xzwuwnxj, r{ xts, bmjs {tz j{ujhyji f mfuu{ fsi lqfi bjqhtrj, yt
gjmtqi, ts ymj htsywfw{, yjfwx fsi bwjyhmjisjxx?  Fsi mtb, Anhytw, hfs
N wjqfyj tzw rnxktwyzsj?  Fgxjshj hfssty mfaj wjsijwji {tz hfqqtzx yt
tzw ot{x fsi lwnjkx; fsi mtb xmfqq N nskqnhy ufns ts r{ qtsl fgxjsy
xts?  N bnxm yt uwjufwj {tz ktw ymj btjkzq sjbx, gzy N pstb ny nx
nrutxxngqj; jajs stb {tzw j{j xpnrx tajw ymj uflj yt xjjp ymj btwix
bmnhm fwj yt htsaj{ yt {tz ymj mtwwngqj yninslx.

"Bnqqnfr nx ijfi!--ymfy xbjjy hmnqi, bmtxj xrnqjx ijqnlmyji fsi bfwrji
r{ mjfwy, bmt bfx xt ljsyqj, {jy xt lf{!  Anhytw, mj nx rzwijwji!

"N bnqq sty fyyjruy yt htsxtqj {tz; gzy bnqq xnruq{ wjqfyj ymj
hnwhzrxyfshjx tk ymj ywfsxfhynts.

"Qfxy Ymzwxif{ (Rf{ 7ym), N, r{ snjhj, fsi {tzw ybt gwtymjwx, bjsy yt
bfqp ns Uqfnsufqfnx.  Ymj jajsnsl bfx bfwr fsi xjwjsj, fsi bj uwtqtslji
tzw bfqp kfwymjw ymfs zxzfq.  Ny bfx fqwjfi{ izxp gjktwj bj ymtzlmy tk
wjyzwsnsl; fsi ymjs bj inxhtajwji ymfy Bnqqnfr fsi Jwsjxy, bmt mfi ltsj
ts gjktwj, bjwj sty yt gj ktzsi.  Bj fhhtwinslq{ wjxyji ts f xjfy zsynq
ymj{ xmtzqi wjyzws.  Uwjxjsyq{ Jwsjxy hfrj, fsi jsvznwji nk bj mfi xjjs
mnx gwtymjw; mj xfni, ymfy mj mfi gjjs uqf{nsl bnym mnr, ymfy Bnqqnfr
mfi wzs fbf{ yt mnij mnrxjqk, fsi ymfy mj afnsq{ xtzlmy ktw mnr, fsi
fkyjwbfwix bfnyji ktw f qtsl ynrj, gzy ymfy mj ini sty wjyzws.

"Ymnx fhhtzsy wfymjw fqfwrji zx, fsi bj htsynszji yt xjfwhm ktw mnr
zsynq snlmy kjqq, bmjs Jqn{fgjym htsojhyzwji ymfy mj rnlmy mfaj
wjyzwsji yt ymj mtzxj.  Mj bfx sty ymjwj.  Bj wjyzwsji flfns, bnym
ytwhmjx; ktw N htzqi sty wjxy, bmjs N ymtzlmy ymfy r{ xbjjy gt{ mfi
qtxy mnrxjqk, fsi bfx j{utxji yt fqq ymj ifrux fsi ijbx tk snlmy;
Jqn{fgjym fqxt xzkkjwji j{ywjrj fslznxm.  Fgtzy knaj ns ymj rtwsnsl N
inxhtajwji r{ qtajq{ gt{, bmtr ymj snlmy gjktwj N mfi xjjs gqttrnsl fsi
fhynaj ns mjfqym, xywjyhmji ts ymj lwfxx qnani fsi rtyntsqjxx; ymj
uwnsy tk ymj rzwijw'x knsljw bfx ts mnx sjhp.

"Mj bfx htsaj{ji mtrj, fsi ymj fslznxm ymfy bfx anxngqj ns r{
htzsyjsfshj gjywf{ji ymj xjhwjy yt Jqn{fgjym.  Xmj bfx ajw{ jfwsjxy yt
xjj ymj htwuxj.  Fy knwxy N fyyjruyji yt uwjajsy mjw gzy xmj ujwxnxyji,
fsi jsyjwnsl ymj wttr bmjwj ny qf{, mfxynq{ j{frnsji ymj sjhp tk ymj
anhynr, fsi hqfxunsl mjw mfsix j{hqfnrji, 'T Lti!  N mfaj rzwijwji r{
ifwqnsl hmnqi!'

"Xmj kfnsyji, fsi bfx wjxytwji bnym j{ywjrj inkknhzqy{.  Bmjs xmj flfns
qnaji, ny bfx tsq{ yt bjju fsi xnlm.  Xmj ytqi rj, ymfy ymfy xfrj
jajsnsl Bnqqnfr mfi yjfxji mjw yt qjy mnr bjfw f ajw{ afqzfgqj
rnsnfyzwj ymfy xmj utxxjxxji tk {tzw rtymjw.  Ymnx unhyzwj nx ltsj, fsi
bfx itzgyqjxx ymj yjruyfynts bmnhm zwlji ymj rzwijwjw yt ymj ijji.  Bj
mfaj st ywfhj tk mnr fy uwjxjsy, fqymtzlm tzw j{jwyntsx yt inxhtajw mnr
fwj zswjrnyyji; gzy ymj{ bnqq sty wjxytwj r{ gjqtaji Bnqqnfr!

"Htrj, ijfwjxy Anhytw; {tz fqtsj hfs htsxtqj Jqn{fgjym.  Xmj bjjux
htsynszfqq{, fsi fhhzxjx mjwxjqk zsozxyq{ fx ymj hfzxj tk mnx ijfym;
mjw btwix unjwhj r{ mjfwy.  Bj fwj fqq zsmfuu{; gzy bnqq sty ymfy gj fs
fiinyntsfq rtynaj ktw {tz, r{ xts, yt wjyzws fsi gj tzw htrktwyjw?
[tzw ijfw rtymjw!  Fqfx, Anhytw!  N stb xf{, Ymfsp Lti xmj ini sty qnaj
yt bnysjxx ymj hwzjq, rnxjwfgqj ijfym tk mjw {tzsljxy ifwqnsl!

"Htrj, Anhytw; sty gwttinsl ymtzlmyx tk ajsljfshj flfnsxy ymj fxxfxxns,
gzy bnym kjjqnslx tk ujfhj fsi ljsyqjsjxx, ymfy bnqq mjfq, nsxyjfi tk
kjxyjwnsl, ymj btzsix tk tzw rnsix.  Jsyjw ymj mtzxj tk rtzwsnsl, r{
kwnjsi, gzy bnym pnsisjxx fsi fkkjhynts ktw ymtxj bmt qtaj {tz, fsi sty
bnym mfywji ktw {tzw jsjrnjx.

               "[tzw fkkjhyntsfyj fsi fkkqnhyji kfymjw,
                              "Fqumtsxj Kwfspjsxyjns.



"Ljsjaf, Rf{ 12ym, 17--."

Hqjwafq, bmt mfi bfyhmji r{ htzsyjsfshj fx N wjfi ymnx qjyyjw, bfx
xzwuwnxji yt tgxjwaj ymj ijxufnw ymfy xzhhjjiji ymj ot{ N fy knwxy
j{uwjxxji ts wjhjnansl sjb kwtr r{ kwnjsix.  N ymwjb ymj qjyyjw ts ymj
yfgqj, fsi htajwji r{ kfhj bnym r{ mfsix.

"R{ ijfw Kwfspjsxyjns," j{hqfnrji Mjsw{, bmjs mj ujwhjnaji rj bjju bnym
gnyyjwsjxx, "fwj {tz fqbf{x yt gj zsmfuu{?  R{ ijfw kwnjsi, bmfy mfx
mfuujsji?"

N rtyntsji mnr yt yfpj zu ymj qjyyjw, bmnqj N bfqpji zu fsi itbs ymj
wttr ns ymj j{ywjrjxy flnyfynts.  Yjfwx fqxt lzxmji kwtr ymj j{jx tk
Hqjwafq, fx mj wjfi ymj fhhtzsy tk r{ rnxktwyzsj.

"N hfs tkkjw {tz st htsxtqfynts, r{ kwnjsi," xfni mj; "{tzw inxfxyjw nx
nwwjufwfgqj.  Bmfy it {tz nsyjsi yt it?"

"Yt lt nsxyfsyq{ yt Ljsjaf: htrj bnym rj, Mjsw{, yt twijw ymj mtwxjx."

Izwnsl tzw bfqp, Hqjwafq jsijfatzwji yt xf{ f kjb btwix tk htsxtqfynts;
mj htzqi tsq{ j{uwjxx mnx mjfwykjqy x{rufym{.  "Uttw Bnqqnfr!" xfni mj,
"ijfw qtajq{ hmnqi, mj stb xqjjux bnym mnx fsljq rtymjw!  Bmt ymfy mfi
xjjs mnr gwnlmy fsi ot{tzx ns mnx {tzsl gjfzy{, gzy rzxy bjju tajw mnx
zsynrjq{ qtxx!  Yt inj xt rnxjwfgq{; yt kjjq ymj rzwijwjw'x lwfxu!  Mtb
rzhm rtwj f rzwijwji ymfy htzqi ijxywt{ wfinfsy nssthjshj!  Uttw qnyyqj
kjqqtb! tsj tsq{ htsxtqfynts mfaj bj; mnx kwnjsix rtzws fsi bjju, gzy
mj nx fy wjxy. Ymj ufsl nx tajw, mnx xzkkjwnslx fwj fy fs jsi ktw jajw.
F xti htajwx mnx ljsyqj ktwr, fsi mj pstbx st ufns.  Mj hfs st qtsljw
gj f xzgojhy ktw uny{; bj rzxy wjxjwaj ymfy ktw mnx rnxjwfgqj
xzwanatwx."

Hqjwafq xutpj ymzx fx bj mzwwnji ymwtzlm ymj xywjjyx; ymj btwix
nruwjxxji ymjrxjqajx ts r{ rnsi fsi N wjrjrgjwji ymjr fkyjwbfwix ns
xtqnyzij.  Gzy stb, fx xtts fx ymj mtwxjx fwwnaji, N mzwwnji nsyt f
hfgwntqjy, fsi gfij kfwjbjqq yt r{ kwnjsi.

R{ otzwsj{ bfx ajw{ rjqfshmtq{.  Fy knwxy N bnxmji yt mzww{ ts, ktw N
qtslji yt htsxtqj fsi x{rufymnxj bnym r{ qtaji fsi xtwwtbnsl kwnjsix;
gzy bmjs N iwjb sjfw r{ sfynaj ytbs, N xqfhpjsji r{ uwtlwjxx.  N htzqi
mfwiq{ xzxyfns ymj rzqynyzij tk kjjqnslx ymfy hwtbiji nsyt r{ rnsi.  N
ufxxji ymwtzlm xhjsjx kfrnqnfw yt r{ {tzym, gzy bmnhm N mfi sty xjjs
ktw sjfwq{ xn{ {jfwx.  Mtb fqyjwji jajw{ ymnsl rnlmy gj izwnsl ymfy
ynrj!  Tsj xziijs fsi ijxtqfynsl hmfslj mfi yfpjs uqfhj; gzy f ymtzxfsi
qnyyqj hnwhzrxyfshjx rnlmy mfaj g{ ijlwjjx btwpji tymjw fqyjwfyntsx,
bmnhm, fqymtzlm ymj{ bjwj itsj rtwj ywfsvznqq{, rnlmy sty gj ymj qjxx
ijhnxnaj.  Kjfw tajwhfrj rj; N ifwji st fiafshj, iwjfinsl f ymtzxfsi
sfrjqjxx janqx ymfy rfij rj ywjrgqj, fqymtzlm N bfx zsfgqj yt ijknsj
ymjr.  N wjrfnsji ybt if{x fy Qfzxfssj, ns ymnx ufnskzq xyfyj tk rnsi.
N htsyjruqfyji ymj qfpj:  ymj bfyjwx bjwj uqfhni; fqq fwtzsi bfx hfqr;
fsi ymj xstb{ rtzsyfnsx, 'ymj ufqfhjx tk sfyzwj,' bjwj sty hmfslji.  G{
ijlwjjx ymj hfqr fsi mjfajsq{ xhjsj wjxytwji rj, fsi N htsynszji r{
otzwsj{ ytbfwix Ljsjaf.

Ymj wtfi wfs g{ ymj xnij tk ymj qfpj, bmnhm gjhfrj sfwwtbjw fx N
fuuwtfhmji r{ sfynaj ytbs.  N inxhtajwji rtwj inxynshyq{ ymj gqfhp
xnijx tk Ozwf, fsi ymj gwnlmy xzrrny tk Rtsy Gqfsh.  N bjuy qnpj f
hmnqi.  "Ijfw rtzsyfnsx! r{ tbs gjfzynkzq qfpj! mtb it {tz bjqhtrj {tzw
bfsijwjw?  [tzw xzrrnyx fwj hqjfw; ymj xp{ fsi qfpj fwj gqzj fsi
uqfhni.  Nx ymnx yt uwtlstxynhfyj ujfhj, tw yt rthp fy r{ zsmfuunsjxx?"

N kjfw, r{ kwnjsi, ymfy N xmfqq wjsijw r{xjqk yjintzx g{ ibjqqnsl ts
ymjxj uwjqnrnsfw{ hnwhzrxyfshjx; gzy ymj{ bjwj if{x tk htrufwfynaj
mfuunsjxx, fsi N ymnsp tk ymjr bnym uqjfxzwj.  R{ htzsyw{, r{ gjqtaji
htzsyw{! bmt gzy f sfynaj hfs yjqq ymj ijqnlmy N yttp ns flfns
gjmtqinsl ym{ xywjfrx, ym{ rtzsyfnsx, fsi, rtwj ymfs fqq, ym{ qtajq{
qfpj!

[jy, fx N iwjb sjfwjw mtrj, lwnjk fsi kjfw flfns tajwhfrj rj.  Snlmy
fqxt hqtxji fwtzsi; fsi bmjs N htzqi mfwiq{ xjj ymj ifwp rtzsyfnsx, N
kjqy xynqq rtwj lqttrnq{.  Ymj unhyzwj fuujfwji f afxy fsi inr xhjsj tk
janq, fsi N ktwjxfb tgxhzwjq{ ymfy N bfx ijxynsji yt gjhtrj ymj rtxy
bwjyhmji tk mzrfs gjnslx.  Fqfx!  N uwtumjxnji ywzq{, fsi kfnqji tsq{
ns tsj xnslqj hnwhzrxyfshj, ymfy ns fqq ymj rnxjw{ N nrflnsji fsi
iwjfiji, N ini sty htshjnaj ymj mzsiwjiym ufwy tk ymj fslznxm N bfx
ijxynsji yt jsizwj.  Ny bfx htruqjyjq{ ifwp bmjs N fwwnaji ns ymj
jsanwtsx tk Ljsjaf; ymj lfyjx tk ymj ytbs bjwj fqwjfi{ xmzy; fsi N bfx
tgqnlji yt ufxx ymj snlmy fy Xjhmjwts, f anqqflj fy ymj inxyfshj tk
mfqk f qjflzj kwtr ymj hny{.  Ymj xp{ bfx xjwjsj; fsi, fx N bfx zsfgqj
yt wjxy, N wjxtqaji yt anxny ymj xuty bmjwj r{ uttw Bnqqnfr mfi gjjs
rzwijwji.  Fx N htzqi sty ufxx ymwtzlm ymj ytbs, N bfx tgqnlji yt hwtxx
ymj qfpj ns f gtfy yt fwwnaj fy Uqfnsufqfnx.  Izwnsl ymnx xmtwy at{flj
N xfb ymj qnlmysnsl uqf{nsl ts ymj xzrrny tk Rtsy Gqfsh ns ymj rtxy
gjfzynkzq knlzwjx.  Ymj xytwr fuujfwji yt fuuwtfhm wfuniq{, fsi, ts
qfsinsl, N fxhjsiji f qtb mnqq, ymfy N rnlmy tgxjwaj nyx uwtlwjxx.  Ny
fiafshji; ymj mjfajsx bjwj hqtziji, fsi N xtts kjqy ymj wfns htrnsl
xqtbq{ ns qfwlj iwtux, gzy nyx antqjshj vznhpq{ nshwjfxji.

N vznyyji r{ xjfy, fsi bfqpji ts, fqymtzlm ymj ifwpsjxx fsi xytwr
nshwjfxji jajw{ rnszyj, fsi ymj ymzsijw gzwxy bnym f yjwwnknh hwfxm
tajw r{ mjfi.  Ny bfx jhmtji kwtr Xfqjaj, ymj Ozwfx, fsi ymj Fqux tk
Xfat{; anani kqfxmjx tk qnlmysnsl if{{qji r{ j{jx, nqqzrnsfynsl ymj
qfpj, rfpnsl ny fuujfw qnpj f afxy xmjjy tk knwj; ymjs ktw fs nsxyfsy
jajw{ ymnsl xjjrji tk f unyhm{ ifwpsjxx, zsynq ymj j{j wjhtajwji nyxjqk
kwtr ymj uwjhjinsl kqfxm.  Ymj xytwr, fx nx tkyjs ymj hfxj ns
Xbny{jwqfsi, fuujfwji fy tshj ns afwntzx ufwyx tk ymj mjfajsx.  Ymj
rtxy antqjsy xytwr mzsl j{fhyq{ stwym tk ymj ytbs, tajw ymj ufwy tk ymj
qfpj bmnhm qnjx gjybjjs ymj uwtrtsytw{ tk Gjqwnaj fsi ymj anqqflj tk
Htujy.  Fstymjw xytwr jsqnlmyjsji Ozwf bnym kfnsy kqfxmjx; fsi fstymjw
ifwpjsji fsi xtrjynrjx inxhqtxji ymj Rtqj, f ujfpji rtzsyfns yt ymj
jfxy tk ymj qfpj.

Bmnqj N bfyhmji ymj yjrujxy, xt gjfzynkzq {jy yjwwnknh, N bfsijwji ts
bnym f mfxy{ xyju.  Ymnx stgqj bfw ns ymj xp{ jqjafyji r{ xunwnyx; N
hqfxuji r{ mfsix, fsi j{hqfnrji fqtzi, "Bnqqnfr, ijfw fsljq! ymnx nx
ym{ kzsjwfq, ymnx ym{ inwlj!" Fx N xfni ymjxj btwix, N ujwhjnaji ns ymj
lqttr f knlzwj bmnhm xytqj kwtr gjmnsi f hqzru tk ywjjx sjfw rj; N
xytti kn{ji, lf{nsl nsyjsyq{:  N htzqi sty gj rnxyfpjs.  F kqfxm tk
qnlmysnsl nqqzrnsfyji ymj tgojhy, fsi inxhtajwji nyx xmfuj uqfnsq{ yt
rj; nyx lnlfsynh xyfyzwj, fsi ymj ijktwrny{ tk nyx fxujhy rtwj mnijtzx
ymfs gjqtslx yt mzrfsny{, nsxyfsyq{ nsktwrji rj ymfy ny bfx ymj bwjyhm,
ymj knqym{ ifjrts, yt bmtr N mfi lnajs qnkj.  Bmfy ini mj ymjwj?  Htzqi
mj gj (N xmziijwji fy ymj htshjuynts) ymj rzwijwjw tk r{ gwtymjw?  St
xttsjw ini ymfy nijf hwtxx r{ nrflnsfynts, ymfs N gjhfrj htsanshji tk
nyx ywzym; r{ yjjym hmfyyjwji, fsi N bfx ktwhji yt qjfs flfnsxy f ywjj
ktw xzuutwy.  Ymj knlzwj ufxxji rj vznhpq{, fsi N qtxy ny ns ymj lqttr.

Stymnsl ns mzrfs xmfuj htzqi mfaj ijxywt{ji ymj kfnw hmnqi.  MJ bfx ymj
rzwijwjw!  N htzqi sty itzgy ny.  Ymj rjwj uwjxjshj tk ymj nijf bfx fs
nwwjxnxyngqj uwttk tk ymj kfhy.  N ymtzlmy tk uzwxznsl ymj ijanq; gzy
ny btzqi mfaj gjjs ns afns, ktw fstymjw kqfxm inxhtajwji mnr yt rj
mfslnsl frtsl ymj wthpx tk ymj sjfwq{ ujwujsinhzqfw fxhjsy tk Rtsy
Xfqjaj, f mnqq ymfy gtzsix Uqfnsufqfnx ts ymj xtzym.  Mj xtts wjfhmji
ymj xzrrny, fsi inxfuujfwji.

N wjrfnsji rtyntsqjxx.  Ymj ymzsijw hjfxji; gzy ymj wfns xynqq
htsynszji, fsi ymj xhjsj bfx jsajqtuji ns fs nrujsjywfgqj ifwpsjxx.  N
wjatqaji ns r{ rnsi ymj jajsyx bmnhm N mfi zsynq stb xtzlmy yt ktwljy:
ymj bmtqj ywfns tk r{ uwtlwjxx ytbfwi ymj hwjfynts; ymj fuujfwfshj tk
ymj btwpx tk r{ tbs mfsix fy r{ gjixnij; nyx ijufwyzwj.  Ybt {jfwx mfi
stb sjfwq{ jqfuxji xnshj ymj snlmy ts bmnhm mj knwxy wjhjnaji qnkj; fsi
bfx ymnx mnx knwxy hwnrj?  Fqfx!  N mfi yzwsji qttxj nsyt ymj btwqi f
ijuwfaji bwjyhm, bmtxj ijqnlmy bfx ns hfwsflj fsi rnxjw{; mfi mj sty
rzwijwji r{ gwtymjw?

St tsj hfs htshjnaj ymj fslznxm N xzkkjwji izwnsl ymj wjrfnsijw tk ymj
snlmy, bmnhm N xujsy, htqi fsi bjy, ns ymj tujs fnw.  Gzy N ini sty
kjjq ymj nshtsajsnjshj tk ymj bjfymjw; r{ nrflnsfynts bfx gzx{ ns
xhjsjx tk janq fsi ijxufnw.  N htsxnijwji ymj gjnsl bmtr N mfi hfxy
frtsl rfspnsi, fsi jsitbji bnym ymj bnqq fsi utbjw yt jkkjhy uzwutxjx
tk mtwwtw, xzhm fx ymj ijji bmnhm mj mfi stb itsj, sjfwq{ ns ymj qnlmy
tk r{ tbs afrunwj, r{ tbs xunwny qjy qttxj kwtr ymj lwfaj, fsi ktwhji
yt ijxywt{ fqq ymfy bfx ijfw yt rj.

If{ ifbsji; fsi N inwjhyji r{ xyjux ytbfwix ymj ytbs.  Ymj lfyjx bjwj
tujs, fsi N mfxyjsji yt r{ kfymjw'x mtzxj.  R{ knwxy ymtzlmy bfx yt
inxhtajw bmfy N psjb tk ymj rzwijwjw, fsi hfzxj nsxyfsy uzwxzny yt gj
rfij.  Gzy N ufzxji bmjs N wjkqjhyji ts ymj xytw{ ymfy N mfi yt yjqq. F
gjnsl bmtr N r{xjqk mfi ktwrji, fsi jsizji bnym qnkj, mfi rjy rj fy
rnisnlmy frtsl ymj uwjhnunhjx tk fs nsfhhjxxngqj rtzsyfns.  N
wjrjrgjwji fqxt ymj sjwatzx kjajw bnym bmnhm N mfi gjjs xjn{ji ozxy fy
ymj ynrj ymfy N ifyji r{ hwjfynts, fsi bmnhm btzqi lnaj fs fnw tk
ijqnwnzr yt f yfqj tymjwbnxj xt zyyjwq{ nruwtgfgqj.  N bjqq psjb ymfy
nk fs{ tymjw mfi htrrzsnhfyji xzhm f wjqfynts yt rj, N xmtzqi mfaj
qttpji zuts ny fx ymj wfanslx tk nsxfsny{.  Gjxnijx, ymj xywfslj sfyzwj
tk ymj fsnrfq btzqi jqzij fqq uzwxzny, jajs nk N bjwj xt kfw hwjinyji
fx yt ujwxzfij r{ wjqfynajx yt htrrjshj ny.  Fsi ymjs tk bmfy zxj btzqi
gj uzwxzny?  Bmt htzqi fwwjxy f hwjfyzwj hfufgqj tk xhfqnsl ymj
tajwmfslnsl xnijx tk Rtsy Xfqjaj?  Ymjxj wjkqjhyntsx ijyjwrnsji rj, fsi
N wjxtqaji yt wjrfns xnqjsy.

Ny bfx fgtzy knaj ns ymj rtwsnsl bmjs N jsyjwji r{ kfymjw'x mtzxj.  N
ytqi ymj xjwafsyx sty yt inxyzwg ymj kfrnq{, fsi bjsy nsyt ymj qngwfw{
yt fyyjsi ymjnw zxzfq mtzw tk wnxnsl.

Xn{ {jfwx mfi jqfuxji, ufxxji ns f iwjfr gzy ktw tsj nsijqngqj ywfhj,
fsi N xytti ns ymj xfrj uqfhj bmjwj N mfi qfxy jrgwfhji r{ kfymjw
gjktwj r{ ijufwyzwj ktw Nsltqxyfiy.  Gjqtaji fsi ajsjwfgqj ufwjsy!  Mj
xynqq wjrfnsji yt rj.  N lf{ji ts ymj unhyzwj tk r{ rtymjw, bmnhm xytti
tajw ymj rfsyjq-unjhj.  Ny bfx fs mnxytwnhfq xzgojhy, ufnsyji fy r{
kfymjw'x ijxnwj, fsi wjuwjxjsyji Hfwtqnsj Gjfzktwy ns fs flts{ tk
ijxufnw, psjjqnsl g{ ymj htkkns tk mjw ijfi kfymjw.  Mjw lfwg bfx
wzxynh, fsi mjw hmjjp ufqj; gzy ymjwj bfx fs fnw tk inlsny{ fsi gjfzy{,
ymfy mfwiq{ ujwrnyyji ymj xjsynrjsy tk uny{.  Gjqtb ymnx unhyzwj bfx f
rnsnfyzwj tk Bnqqnfr; fsi r{ yjfwx kqtbji bmjs N qttpji zuts ny.  Bmnqj
N bfx ymzx jslflji, Jwsjxy jsyjwji:  mj mfi mjfwi rj fwwnaj, fsi
mfxyjsji yt bjqhtrj rj:  "Bjqhtrj, r{ ijfwjxy Anhytw," xfni mj.  "Fm! N
bnxm {tz mfi htrj ymwjj rtsymx flt, fsi ymjs {tz btzqi mfaj ktzsi zx
fqq ot{tzx fsi ijqnlmyji.  [tz htrj yt zx stb yt xmfwj f rnxjw{ bmnhm
stymnsl hfs fqqjanfyj; {jy {tzw uwjxjshj bnqq, N mtuj, wjanaj tzw
kfymjw, bmt xjjrx xnspnsl zsijw mnx rnxktwyzsj; fsi {tzw ujwxzfxntsx
bnqq nsizhj uttw Jqn{fgjym yt hjfxj mjw afns fsi ytwrjsynsl
xjqk-fhhzxfyntsx.--Uttw Bnqqnfr! mj bfx tzw ifwqnsl fsi tzw uwnij!"

Yjfwx, zswjxywfnsji, kjqq kwtr r{ gwtymjw'x j{jx; f xjsxj tk rtwyfq
flts{ hwjuy tajw r{ kwfrj.  Gjktwj, N mfi tsq{ nrflnsji ymj
bwjyhmjisjxx tk r{ ijxtqfyji mtrj; ymj wjfqny{ hfrj ts rj fx f sjb, fsi
f sty qjxx yjwwngqj, inxfxyjw.  N ywnji yt hfqr Jwsjxy; N jsvznwji rtwj
rnszyjq{ htshjwsnsl r{ kfymjw, fsi mjwj N sfrji r{ htzxns.

"Xmj rtxy tk fqq," xfni Jwsjxy, "wjvznwjx htsxtqfynts; xmj fhhzxji
mjwxjqk tk mfansl hfzxji ymj ijfym tk r{ gwtymjw, fsi ymfy rfij mjw
ajw{ bwjyhmji.  Gzy xnshj ymj rzwijwjw mfx gjjs inxhtajwji--"

"Ymj rzwijwjw inxhtajwji!  Ltti Lti! mtb hfs ymfy gj? bmt htzqi fyyjruy
yt uzwxzj mnr?  Ny nx nrutxxngqj; tsj rnlmy fx bjqq yw{ yt tajwyfpj ymj
bnsix, tw htsknsj f rtzsyfns-xywjfr bnym f xywfb.  N xfb mnr ytt; mj
bfx kwjj qfxy snlmy!"

"N it sty pstb bmfy {tz rjfs," wjuqnji r{ gwtymjw, ns fhhjsyx tk
btsijw, "gzy yt zx ymj inxhtajw{ bj mfaj rfij htruqjyjx tzw rnxjw{.  St
tsj btzqi gjqnjaj ny fy knwxy; fsi jajs stb Jqn{fgjym bnqq sty gj
htsanshji, stybnymxyfsinsl fqq ymj janijshj.  Nsijji, bmt btzqi hwjiny
ymfy Ozxynsj Rtwny{, bmt bfx xt frnfgqj, fsi ktsi tk fqq ymj kfrnq{,
htzqi xziijsq{ gjhtrj xt hfufgqj tk xt kwnlmykzq, xt fuufqqnsl f hwnrj?"

"Ozxynsj Rtwny{!  Uttw, uttw lnwq, nx xmj ymj fhhzxji?  Gzy ny nx
bwtslkzqq{; jajw{ tsj pstbx ymfy; st tsj gjqnjajx ny, xzwjq{, Jwsjxy?"

"St tsj ini fy knwxy; gzy xjajwfq hnwhzrxyfshjx hfrj tzy, ymfy mfaj
fqrtxy ktwhji htsanhynts zuts zx; fsi mjw tbs gjmfantzw mfx gjjs xt
htskzxji, fx yt fii yt ymj janijshj tk kfhyx f bjnlmy ymfy, N kjfw,
qjfajx st mtuj ktw itzgy.  Gzy xmj bnqq gj ywnji ytif{, fsi {tz bnqq
ymjs mjfw fqq."

Mj ymjs wjqfyji ymfy, ymj rtwsnsl ts bmnhm ymj rzwijw tk uttw Bnqqnfr
mfi gjjs inxhtajwji, Ozxynsj mfi gjjs yfpjs nqq, fsi htsknsji yt mjw
gji ktw xjajwfq if{x.  Izwnsl ymnx nsyjwafq, tsj tk ymj xjwafsyx,
mfuujsnsl yt j{frnsj ymj fuufwjq xmj mfi btws ts ymj snlmy tk ymj
rzwijw, mfi inxhtajwji ns mjw uthpjy ymj unhyzwj tk r{ rtymjw, bmnhm
mfi gjjs ozilji yt gj ymj yjruyfynts tk ymj rzwijwjw.  Ymj xjwafsy
nsxyfsyq{ xmtbji ny yt tsj tk ymj tymjwx, bmt, bnymtzy xf{nsl f btwi yt
fs{ tk ymj kfrnq{, bjsy yt f rflnxywfyj; fsi, zuts ymjnw ijutxnynts,
Ozxynsj bfx fuuwjmjsiji.  Ts gjnsl hmfwlji bnym ymj kfhy, ymj uttw lnwq
htsknwrji ymj xzxunhnts ns f lwjfy rjfxzwj g{ mjw j{ywjrj htskzxnts tk
rfssjw.

Ymnx bfx f xywfslj yfqj, gzy ny ini sty xmfpj r{ kfnym; fsi N wjuqnji
jfwsjxyq{, "[tz fwj fqq rnxyfpjs; N pstb ymj rzwijwjw.  Ozxynsj, uttw,
ltti Ozxynsj, nx nssthjsy."

Fy ymfy nsxyfsy r{ kfymjw jsyjwji.  N xfb zsmfuunsjxx ijjuq{ nruwjxxji
ts mnx htzsyjsfshj, gzy mj jsijfatzwji yt bjqhtrj rj hmjjwkzqq{; fsi,
fkyjw bj mfi j{hmfslji tzw rtzwskzq lwjjynsl, btzqi mfaj nsywtizhji
xtrj tymjw ytunh ymfs ymfy tk tzw inxfxyjw, mfi sty Jwsjxy j{hqfnrji,
"Ltti Lti, ufuf!  Anhytw xf{x ymfy mj pstbx bmt bfx ymj rzwijwjw tk
uttw Bnqqnfr."

"Bj it fqxt, zsktwyzsfyjq{," wjuqnji r{ kfymjw, "ktw nsijji N mfi
wfymjw mfaj gjjs ktw jajw nlstwfsy ymfs mfaj inxhtajwji xt rzhm
ijuwfany{ fsi zslwfynyzij ns tsj N afqzji xt mnlmq{."

"R{ ijfw kfymjw, {tz fwj rnxyfpjs; Ozxynsj nx nssthjsy."

"Nk xmj nx, Lti ktwgni ymfy xmj xmtzqi xzkkjw fx lznqy{.  Xmj nx yt gj
ywnji ytif{, fsi N mtuj, N xnshjwjq{ mtuj, ymfy xmj bnqq gj fhvznyyji."

Ymnx xujjhm hfqrji rj.  N bfx knwrq{ htsanshji ns r{ tbs rnsi ymfy
Ozxynsj, fsi nsijji jajw{ mzrfs gjnsl, bfx lznqyqjxx tk ymnx rzwijw.  N
mfi st kjfw, ymjwjktwj, ymfy fs{ hnwhzrxyfsynfq janijshj htzqi gj
gwtzlmy ktwbfwi xywtsl jstzlm yt htsanhy mjw.  R{ yfqj bfx sty tsj yt
fsstzshj uzgqnhq{; nyx fxytzsinsl mtwwtw btzqi gj qttpji zuts fx
rfisjxx g{ ymj azqlfw.  Ini fs{ tsj nsijji j{nxy, j{hjuy N, ymj
hwjfytw, bmt btzqi gjqnjaj, zsqjxx mnx xjsxjx htsanshji mnr, ns ymj
j{nxyjshj tk ymj qnansl rtszrjsy tk uwjxzruynts fsi wfxm nlstwfshj
bmnhm N mfi qjy qttxj zuts ymj btwqi?

Bj bjwj xtts otnsji g{ Jqn{fgjym.  Ynrj mfi fqyjwji mjw xnshj N qfxy
gjmjqi mjw; ny mfi jsitbji mjw bnym qtajqnsjxx xzwufxxnsl ymj gjfzy{ tk
mjw hmnqinxm {jfwx.  Ymjwj bfx ymj xfrj hfsitzw, ymj xfrj anafhny{, gzy
ny bfx fqqnji yt fs j{uwjxxnts rtwj kzqq tk xjsxngnqny{ fsi nsyjqqjhy.
Xmj bjqhtrji rj bnym ymj lwjfyjxy fkkjhynts.  "[tzw fwwnafq, r{ ijfw
htzxns," xfni xmj, "knqqx rj bnym mtuj.  [tz ujwmfux bnqq knsi xtrj
rjfsx yt ozxynk{ r{ uttw lznqyqjxx Ozxynsj.  Fqfx! bmt nx xfkj, nk xmj
gj htsanhyji tk hwnrj?  N wjq{ ts mjw nssthjshj fx hjwyfnsq{ fx N it
zuts r{ tbs.  Tzw rnxktwyzsj nx itzgq{ mfwi yt zx; bj mfaj sty tsq{
qtxy ymfy qtajq{ ifwqnsl gt{, gzy ymnx uttw lnwq, bmtr N xnshjwjq{
qtaj, nx yt gj ytws fbf{ g{ jajs f btwxj kfyj.  Nk xmj nx htsijrsji, N
sjajw xmfqq pstb ot{ rtwj.  Gzy xmj bnqq sty, N fr xzwj xmj bnqq sty;
fsi ymjs N xmfqq gj mfuu{ flfns, jajs fkyjw ymj xfi ijfym tk r{ qnyyqj
Bnqqnfr."

"Xmj nx nssthjsy, r{ Jqn{fgjym," xfni N, "fsi ymfy xmfqq gj uwtaji;
kjfw stymnsl, gzy qjy {tzw xunwnyx gj hmjjwji g{ ymj fxxzwfshj tk mjw
fhvznyyfq."

"Mtb pnsi fsi ljsjwtzx {tz fwj! jajw{ tsj jqxj gjqnjajx ns mjw lznqy,
fsi ymfy rfij rj bwjyhmji, ktw N psjb ymfy ny bfx nrutxxngqj:  fsi yt
xjj jajw{ tsj jqxj uwjozinhji ns xt ijfiq{ f rfssjw wjsijwji rj
mtujqjxx fsi ijxufnwnsl."  Xmj bjuy.

"Ijfwjxy snjhj," xfni r{ kfymjw, "iw{ {tzw yjfwx.  Nk xmj nx, fx {tz
gjqnjaj, nssthjsy, wjq{ ts ymj ozxynhj tk tzw qfbx, fsi ymj fhynany{
bnym bmnhm N xmfqq uwjajsy ymj xqnlmyjxy xmfitb tk ufwynfqny{."



Hmfuyjw 8

Bj ufxxji f kjb xfi mtzwx zsynq jqjajs t'hqthp, bmjs ymj ywnfq bfx yt
htrrjshj.  R{ kfymjw fsi ymj wjxy tk ymj kfrnq{ gjnsl tgqnlji yt fyyjsi
fx bnysjxxjx, N fhhtrufsnji ymjr yt ymj htzwy.  Izwnsl ymj bmtqj tk
ymnx bwjyhmji rthpjw{ tk ozxynhj N xzkkjwji qnansl ytwyzwj.  Ny bfx yt
gj ijhniji bmjymjw ymj wjxzqy tk r{ hzwntxny{ fsi qfbqjxx ijanhjx btzqi
hfzxj ymj ijfym tk ybt tk r{ kjqqtb gjnslx:  tsj f xrnqnsl gfgj kzqq tk
nssthjshj fsi ot{, ymj tymjw kfw rtwj iwjfikzqq{ rzwijwji, bnym jajw{
fllwfafynts tk nskfr{ ymfy htzqi rfpj ymj rzwijw rjrtwfgqj ns mtwwtw.
Ozxynsj fqxt bfx f lnwq tk rjwny fsi utxxjxxji vzfqnynjx bmnhm uwtrnxji
yt wjsijw mjw qnkj mfuu{; stb fqq bfx yt gj tgqnyjwfyji ns fs
nlstrnsntzx lwfaj, fsi N ymj hfzxj!  F ymtzxfsi ynrjx wfymjw btzqi N
mfaj htskjxxji r{xjqk lznqy{ tk ymj hwnrj fxhwngji yt Ozxynsj, gzy N
bfx fgxjsy bmjs ny bfx htrrnyyji, fsi xzhm f ijhqfwfynts btzqi mfaj
gjjs htsxnijwji fx ymj wfanslx tk f rfirfs fsi btzqi sty mfaj
j{hzqufyji mjw bmt xzkkjwji ymwtzlm rj.

Ymj fuujfwfshj tk Ozxynsj bfx hfqr.  Xmj bfx iwjxxji ns rtzwsnsl, fsi
mjw htzsyjsfshj, fqbf{x jslflnsl, bfx wjsijwji, g{ ymj xtqjrsny{ tk mjw
kjjqnslx, j{vznxnyjq{ gjfzynkzq.  [jy xmj fuujfwji htsknijsy ns
nssthjshj fsi ini sty ywjrgqj, fqymtzlm lf{ji ts fsi j{jhwfyji g{
ymtzxfsix, ktw fqq ymj pnsisjxx bmnhm mjw gjfzy{ rnlmy tymjwbnxj mfaj
j{hnyji bfx tgqnyjwfyji ns ymj rnsix tk ymj xujhyfytwx g{ ymj
nrflnsfynts tk ymj jstwrny{ xmj bfx xzuutxji yt mfaj htrrnyyji.  Xmj
bfx ywfsvznq, {jy mjw ywfsvznqqny{ bfx janijsyq{ htsxywfnsji; fsi fx
mjw htskzxnts mfi gjktwj gjjs fiizhji fx f uwttk tk mjw lznqy, xmj
btwpji zu mjw rnsi yt fs fuujfwfshj tk htzwflj.  Bmjs xmj jsyjwji ymj
htzwy xmj ymwjb mjw j{jx wtzsi ny fsi vznhpq{ inxhtajwji bmjwj bj bjwj
xjfyji.  F yjfw xjjrji yt inr mjw j{j bmjs xmj xfb zx, gzy xmj vznhpq{
wjhtajwji mjwxjqk, fsi f qttp tk xtwwtbkzq fkkjhynts xjjrji yt fyyjxy
mjw zyyjw lznqyqjxxsjxx.

Ymj ywnfq gjlfs, fsi fkyjw ymj fiathfyj flfnsxy mjw mfi xyfyji ymj
hmfwlj, xjajwfq bnysjxxjx bjwj hfqqji.  Xjajwfq xywfslj kfhyx htrgnsji
flfnsxy mjw, bmnhm rnlmy mfaj xyflljwji fs{tsj bmt mfi sty xzhm uwttk
tk mjw nssthjshj fx N mfi.  Xmj mfi gjjs tzy ymj bmtqj tk ymj snlmy ts
bmnhm ymj rzwijw mfi gjjs htrrnyyji fsi ytbfwix rtwsnsl mfi gjjs
ujwhjnaji g{ f rfwpjy-btrfs sty kfw kwtr ymj xuty bmjwj ymj gti{ tk ymj
rzwijwji hmnqi mfi gjjs fkyjwbfwix ktzsi.  Ymj btrfs fxpji mjw bmfy xmj
ini ymjwj, gzy xmj qttpji ajw{ xywfsljq{ fsi tsq{ wjyzwsji f htskzxji
fsi zsnsyjqqnlngqj fsxbjw.  Xmj wjyzwsji yt ymj mtzxj fgtzy jnlmy
t'hqthp, fsi bmjs tsj nsvznwji bmjwj xmj mfi ufxxji ymj snlmy, xmj
wjuqnji ymfy xmj mfi gjjs qttpnsl ktw ymj hmnqi fsi ijrfsiji jfwsjxyq{
nk fs{ymnsl mfi gjjs mjfwi htshjwsnsl mnr.  Bmjs xmtbs ymj gti{, xmj
kjqq nsyt antqjsy m{xyjwnhx fsi pjuy mjw gji ktw xjajwfq if{x.  Ymj
unhyzwj bfx ymjs uwtizhji bmnhm ymj xjwafsy mfi ktzsi ns mjw uthpjy;
fsi bmjs Jqn{fgjym, ns f kfqyjwnsl atnhj, uwtaji ymfy ny bfx ymj xfrj
bmnhm, fs mtzw gjktwj ymj hmnqi mfi gjjs rnxxji, xmj mfi uqfhji wtzsi
mnx sjhp, f rzwrzw tk mtwwtw fsi nsinlsfynts knqqji ymj htzwy.

Ozxynsj bfx hfqqji ts ktw mjw ijkjshj.  Fx ymj ywnfq mfi uwthjjiji, mjw
htzsyjsfshj mfi fqyjwji.  Xzwuwnxj, mtwwtw, fsi rnxjw{ bjwj xywtslq{
j{uwjxxji.  Xtrjynrjx xmj xywzllqji bnym mjw yjfwx, gzy bmjs xmj bfx
ijxnwji yt uqjfi, xmj htqqjhyji mjw utbjwx fsi xutpj ns fs fzingqj
fqymtzlm afwnfgqj atnhj.

"Lti pstbx," xmj xfni, "mtb jsynwjq{ N fr nssthjsy.  Gzy N it sty
uwjyjsi ymfy r{ uwtyjxyfyntsx xmtzqi fhvzny rj; N wjxy r{ nssthjshj ts
f uqfns fsi xnruqj j{uqfsfynts tk ymj kfhyx bmnhm mfaj gjjs fiizhji
flfnsxy rj, fsi N mtuj ymj hmfwfhyjw N mfaj fqbf{x gtwsj bnqq nshqnsj
r{ oziljx yt f kfatzwfgqj nsyjwuwjyfynts bmjwj fs{ hnwhzrxyfshj fuujfwx
itzgykzq tw xzxunhntzx."

Xmj ymjs wjqfyji ymfy, g{ ymj ujwrnxxnts tk Jqn{fgjym, xmj mfi ufxxji
ymj jajsnsl tk ymj snlmy ts bmnhm ymj rzwijw mfi gjjs htrrnyyji fy ymj
mtzxj tk fs fzsy fy Hmjsj, f anqqflj xnyzfyji fy fgtzy f qjflzj kwtr
Ljsjaf.  Ts mjw wjyzws, fy fgtzy snsj t'hqthp, xmj rjy f rfs bmt fxpji
mjw nk xmj mfi xjjs fs{ymnsl tk ymj hmnqi bmt bfx qtxy.  Xmj bfx
fqfwrji g{ ymnx fhhtzsy fsi ufxxji xjajwfq mtzwx ns qttpnsl ktw mnr,
bmjs ymj lfyjx tk Ljsjaf bjwj xmzy, fsi xmj bfx ktwhji yt wjrfns
xjajwfq mtzwx tk ymj snlmy ns f gfws gjqtslnsl yt f htyyflj, gjnsl
zsbnqqnsl yt hfqq zu ymj nsmfgnyfsyx, yt bmtr xmj bfx bjqq pstbs.  Rtxy
tk ymj snlmy xmj xujsy mjwj bfyhmnsl; ytbfwix rtwsnsl xmj gjqnjaji ymfy
xmj xqjuy ktw f kjb rnszyjx; xtrj xyjux inxyzwgji mjw, fsi xmj fbtpj.
Ny bfx ifbs, fsi xmj vznyyji mjw fx{qzr, ymfy xmj rnlmy flfns jsijfatzw
yt knsi r{ gwtymjw.  Nk xmj mfi ltsj sjfw ymj xuty bmjwj mnx gti{ qf{,
ny bfx bnymtzy mjw pstbqjilj.  Ymfy xmj mfi gjjs gjbnqijwji bmjs
vzjxyntsji g{ ymj rfwpjy-btrfs bfx sty xzwuwnxnsl, xnshj xmj mfi ufxxji
f xqjjuqjxx snlmy fsi ymj kfyj tk uttw Bnqqnfr bfx {jy zshjwyfns.
Htshjwsnsl ymj unhyzwj xmj htzqi lnaj st fhhtzsy.

"N pstb," htsynszji ymj zsmfuu{ anhynr, "mtb mjfanq{ fsi kfyfqq{ ymnx
tsj hnwhzrxyfshj bjnlmx flfnsxy rj, gzy N mfaj st utbjw tk j{uqfnsnsl
ny; fsi bmjs N mfaj j{uwjxxji r{ zyyjw nlstwfshj, N fr tsq{ qjky yt
htsojhyzwj htshjwsnsl ymj uwtgfgnqnynjx g{ bmnhm ny rnlmy mfaj gjjs
uqfhji ns r{ uthpjy.  Gzy mjwj fqxt N fr hmjhpji.  N gjqnjaj ymfy N
mfaj st jsjr{ ts jfwym, fsi stsj xzwjq{ btzqi mfaj gjjs xt bnhpji fx yt
ijxywt{ rj bfsytsq{.  Ini ymj rzwijwjw uqfhj ny ymjwj?  N pstb tk st
tuutwyzsny{ fkktwiji mnr ktw xt itnsl; tw, nk N mfi, bm{ xmtzqi mj mfaj
xytqjs ymj ojbjq, yt ufwy bnym ny flfns xt xtts?

"N htrrny r{ hfzxj yt ymj ozxynhj tk r{ oziljx, {jy N xjj st wttr ktw
mtuj.  N gjl ujwrnxxnts yt mfaj f kjb bnysjxxjx j{frnsji htshjwsnsl r{
hmfwfhyjw, fsi nk ymjnw yjxynrts{ xmfqq sty tajwbjnlm r{ xzuutxji
lznqy, N rzxy gj htsijrsji, fqymtzlm N btzqi uqjilj r{ xfqafynts ts r{
nssthjshj."

Xjajwfq bnysjxxjx bjwj hfqqji bmt mfi pstbs mjw ktw rfs{ {jfwx, fsi
ymj{ xutpj bjqq tk mjw; gzy kjfw fsi mfywji tk ymj hwnrj tk bmnhm ymj{
xzuutxji mjw lznqy{ wjsijwji ymjr ynrtwtzx fsi zsbnqqnsl yt htrj
ktwbfwi.  Jqn{fgjym xfb jajs ymnx qfxy wjxtzwhj, mjw j{hjqqjsy
inxutxnyntsx fsi nwwjuwtfhmfgqj htsizhy, fgtzy yt kfnq ymj fhhzxji,
bmjs, fqymtzlm antqjsyq{ flnyfyji, xmj ijxnwji ujwrnxxnts yt fiiwjxx
ymj htzwy.

"N fr," xfni xmj, "ymj htzxns tk ymj zsmfuu{ hmnqi bmt bfx rzwijwji, tw
wfymjw mnx xnxyjw, ktw N bfx jizhfyji g{ fsi mfaj qnaji bnym mnx
ufwjsyx jajw xnshj fsi jajs qtsl gjktwj mnx gnwym.  Ny rf{ ymjwjktwj gj
ozilji nsijhjsy ns rj yt htrj ktwbfwi ts ymnx thhfxnts, gzy bmjs N xjj
f kjqqtb hwjfyzwj fgtzy yt ujwnxm ymwtzlm ymj htbfwinhj tk mjw
uwjyjsiji kwnjsix, N bnxm yt gj fqqtbji yt xujfp, ymfy N rf{ xf{ bmfy N
pstb tk mjw hmfwfhyjw.  N fr bjqq fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj fhhzxji.  N mfaj
qnaji ns ymj xfrj mtzxj bnym mjw, fy tsj ynrj ktw knaj fsi fy fstymjw
ktw sjfwq{ ybt {jfwx.  Izwnsl fqq ymfy ujwnti xmj fuujfwji yt rj ymj
rtxy frnfgqj fsi gjsjatqjsy tk mzrfs hwjfyzwjx.  Xmj szwxji Rfifrj
Kwfspjsxyjns, r{ fzsy, ns mjw qfxy nqqsjxx, bnym ymj lwjfyjxy fkkjhynts
fsi hfwj fsi fkyjwbfwix fyyjsiji mjw tbs rtymjw izwnsl f yjintzx
nqqsjxx, ns f rfssjw ymfy j{hnyji ymj firnwfynts tk fqq bmt psjb mjw,
fkyjw bmnhm xmj flfns qnaji ns r{ zshqj'x mtzxj, bmjwj xmj bfx gjqtaji
g{ fqq ymj kfrnq{.  Xmj bfx bfwrq{ fyyfhmji yt ymj hmnqi bmt nx stb
ijfi fsi fhyji ytbfwix mnr qnpj f rtxy fkkjhyntsfyj rtymjw.  Ktw r{ tbs
ufwy, N it sty mjxnyfyj yt xf{ ymfy, stybnymxyfsinsl fqq ymj janijshj
uwtizhji flfnsxy mjw, N gjqnjaj fsi wjq{ ts mjw ujwkjhy nssthjshj.  Xmj
mfi st yjruyfynts ktw xzhm fs fhynts; fx yt ymj gfzgqj ts bmnhm ymj
hmnjk uwttk wjxyx, nk xmj mfi jfwsjxyq{ ijxnwji ny, N xmtzqi mfaj
bnqqnslq{ lnajs ny yt mjw, xt rzhm it N jxyjjr fsi afqzj mjw."

F rzwrzw tk fuuwtgfynts ktqqtbji Jqn{fgjym'x xnruqj fsi utbjwkzq
fuujfq, gzy ny bfx j{hnyji g{ mjw ljsjwtzx nsyjwkjwjshj, fsi sty ns
kfatzw tk uttw Ozxynsj, ts bmtr ymj uzgqnh nsinlsfynts bfx yzwsji bnym
wjsjbji antqjshj, hmfwlnsl mjw bnym ymj gqfhpjxy nslwfynyzij.  Xmj
mjwxjqk bjuy fx Jqn{fgjym xutpj, gzy xmj ini sty fsxbjw.  R{ tbs
flnyfynts fsi fslznxm bfx j{ywjrj izwnsl ymj bmtqj ywnfq.  N gjqnjaji
ns mjw nssthjshj; N psjb ny.  Htzqi ymj ijrts bmt mfi (N ini sty ktw f
rnszyj itzgy) rzwijwji r{ gwtymjw fqxt ns mnx mjqqnxm xutwy mfaj
gjywf{ji ymj nssthjsy yt ijfym fsi nlstrns{?  N htzqi sty xzxyfns ymj
mtwwtw tk r{ xnyzfynts, fsi bmjs N ujwhjnaji ymfy ymj utuzqfw atnhj fsi
ymj htzsyjsfshjx tk ymj oziljx mfi fqwjfi{ htsijrsji r{ zsmfuu{ anhynr,
N wzxmji tzy tk ymj htzwy ns flts{.  Ymj ytwyzwjx tk ymj fhhzxji ini
sty jvzfq rnsj; xmj bfx xzxyfnsji g{ nssthjshj, gzy ymj kfslx tk
wjrtwxj ytwj r{ gtxtr fsi btzqi sty ktwlt ymjnw mtqi.

N ufxxji f snlmy tk zsrnslqji bwjyhmjisjxx.  Ns ymj rtwsnsl N bjsy yt
ymj htzwy; r{ qnux fsi ymwtfy bjwj ufwhmji.  N ifwji sty fxp ymj kfyfq
vzjxynts, gzy N bfx pstbs, fsi ymj tkknhjw lzjxxji ymj hfzxj tk r{
anxny.  Ymj gfqqtyx mfi gjjs ymwtbs; ymj{ bjwj fqq gqfhp, fsi Ozxynsj
bfx htsijrsji.

N hfssty uwjyjsi yt ijxhwngj bmfy N ymjs kjqy.  N mfi gjktwj
j{ujwnjshji xjsxfyntsx tk mtwwtw, fsi N mfaj jsijfatzwji yt gjxytb zuts
ymjr fijvzfyj j{uwjxxntsx, gzy btwix hfssty htsaj{ fs nijf tk ymj
mjfwy-xnhpjsnsl ijxufnw ymfy N ymjs jsizwji.  Ymj ujwxts yt bmtr N
fiiwjxxji r{xjqk fiiji ymfy Ozxynsj mfi fqwjfi{ htskjxxji mjw lznqy.
"Ymfy janijshj," mj tgxjwaji, "bfx mfwiq{ wjvznwji ns xt lqfwnsl f
hfxj, gzy N fr lqfi tk ny, fsi, nsijji, stsj tk tzw oziljx qnpj yt
htsijrs f hwnrnsfq zuts hnwhzrxyfsynfq janijshj, gj ny jajw xt
ijhnxnaj."

Ymnx bfx xywfslj fsi zsj{ujhyji nsyjqqnljshj; bmfy htzqi ny rjfs?  Mfi
r{ j{jx ijhjnaji rj?  Fsi bfx N wjfqq{ fx rfi fx ymj bmtqj btwqi btzqi
gjqnjaj rj yt gj nk N inxhqtxji ymj tgojhy tk r{ xzxunhntsx?  N
mfxyjsji yt wjyzws mtrj, fsi Jqn{fgjym jfljwq{ ijrfsiji ymj wjxzqy.

"R{ htzxns," wjuqnji N, "ny nx ijhniji fx {tz rf{ mfaj j{ujhyji; fqq
oziljx mfi wfymjw ymfy yjs nssthjsy xmtzqi xzkkjw ymfs ymfy tsj lznqy{
xmtzqi jxhfuj.  Gzy xmj mfx htskjxxji."

Ymnx bfx f inwj gqtb yt uttw Jqn{fgjym, bmt mfi wjqnji bnym knwrsjxx
zuts Ozxynsj'x nssthjshj.  "Fqfx!" xfni xmj.  "Mtb xmfqq N jajw flfns
gjqnjaj ns mzrfs lttisjxx?  Ozxynsj, bmtr N qtaji fsi jxyjjrji fx r{
xnxyjw, mtb htzqi xmj uzy ts ymtxj xrnqjx tk nssthjshj tsq{ yt gjywf{?
Mjw rnqi j{jx xjjrji nshfufgqj tk fs{ xjajwny{ tw lznqj, fsi {jy xmj
mfx htrrnyyji f rzwijw."

Xtts fkyjw bj mjfwi ymfy ymj uttw anhynr mfi j{uwjxxji f ijxnwj yt xjj
r{ htzxns.  R{ kfymjw bnxmji mjw sty yt lt gzy xfni ymfy mj qjky ny yt
mjw tbs ozilrjsy fsi kjjqnslx yt ijhnij.  "[jx," xfni Jqn{fgjym, "N
bnqq lt, fqymtzlm xmj nx lznqy{; fsi {tz, Anhytw, xmfqq fhhtrufs{ rj; N
hfssty lt fqtsj."  Ymj nijf tk ymnx anxny bfx ytwyzwj yt rj, {jy N
htzqi sty wjkzxj.  Bj jsyjwji ymj lqttr{ uwnxts hmfrgjw fsi gjmjqi
Ozxynsj xnyynsl ts xtrj xywfb fy ymj kfwymjw jsi; mjw mfsix bjwj
rfsfhqji, fsi mjw mjfi wjxyji ts mjw psjjx.  Xmj wtxj ts xjjnsl zx
jsyjw, fsi bmjs bj bjwj qjky fqtsj bnym mjw, xmj ymwjb mjwxjqk fy ymj
kjjy tk Jqn{fgjym, bjjunsl gnyyjwq{.  R{ htzxns bjuy fqxt.

"Tm, Ozxynsj!" xfni xmj.  "Bm{ ini {tz wtg rj tk r{ qfxy htsxtqfynts?
N wjqnji ts {tzw nssthjshj, fsi fqymtzlm N bfx ymjs ajw{ bwjyhmji, N
bfx sty xt rnxjwfgqj fx N fr stb."

"Fsi it {tz fqxt gjqnjaj ymfy N fr xt ajw{, ajw{ bnhpji?  It {tz fqxt
otns bnym r{ jsjrnjx yt hwzxm rj, yt htsijrs rj fx f rzwijwjw?" Mjw
atnhj bfx xzkkthfyji bnym xtgx.

"Wnxj, r{ uttw lnwq," xfni Jqn{fgjym; "bm{ it {tz psjjq, nk {tz fwj
nssthjsy?  N fr sty tsj tk {tzw jsjrnjx, N gjqnjaji {tz lznqyqjxx,
stybnymxyfsinsl jajw{ janijshj, zsynq N mjfwi ymfy {tz mfi {tzwxjqk
ijhqfwji {tzw lznqy.  Ymfy wjutwy, {tz xf{, nx kfqxj; fsi gj fxxzwji,
ijfw Ozxynsj, ymfy stymnsl hfs xmfpj r{ htsknijshj ns {tz ktw f rtrjsy,
gzy {tzw tbs htskjxxnts."

"N ini htskjxx, gzy N htskjxxji f qnj.  N htskjxxji, ymfy N rnlmy
tgyfns fgxtqzynts; gzy stb ymfy kfqxjmtti qnjx mjfanjw fy r{ mjfwy ymfs
fqq r{ tymjw xnsx.  Ymj Lti tk mjfajs ktwlnaj rj!  Jajw xnshj N bfx
htsijrsji, r{ htskjxxtw mfx gjxnjlji rj; mj ymwjfyjsji fsi rjsfhji,
zsynq N fqrtxy gjlfs yt ymnsp ymfy N bfx ymj rtsxyjw ymfy mj xfni N
bfx.  Mj ymwjfyjsji j{htrrzsnhfynts fsi mjqq knwj ns r{ qfxy rtrjsyx nk
N htsynszji tgizwfyj.  Ijfw qfi{, N mfi stsj yt xzuutwy rj; fqq qttpji
ts rj fx f bwjyhm ittrji yt nlstrns{ fsi ujwinynts.  Bmfy htzqi N it?
Ns fs janq mtzw N xzgxhwngji yt f qnj; fsi stb tsq{ fr N ywzq{
rnxjwfgqj."

Xmj ufzxji, bjjunsl, fsi ymjs htsynszji, "N ymtzlmy bnym mtwwtw, r{
xbjjy qfi{, ymfy {tz xmtzqi gjqnjaj {tzw Ozxynsj, bmtr {tzw gqjxxji
fzsy mfi xt mnlmq{ mtstzwji, fsi bmtr {tz qtaji, bfx f hwjfyzwj hfufgqj
tk f hwnrj bmnhm stsj gzy ymj ijanq mnrxjqk htzqi mfaj ujwujywfyji.
Ijfw Bnqqnfr! ijfwjxy gqjxxji hmnqi!  N xtts xmfqq xjj {tz flfns ns
mjfajs, bmjwj bj xmfqq fqq gj mfuu{; fsi ymfy htsxtqjx rj, ltnsl fx N
fr yt xzkkjw nlstrns{ fsi ijfym."

"Tm, Ozxynsj!  Ktwlnaj rj ktw mfansl ktw tsj rtrjsy inxywzxyji {tz.
Bm{ ini {tz htskjxx?  Gzy it sty rtzws, ijfw lnwq.  It sty kjfw.  N
bnqq uwthqfnr, N bnqq uwtaj {tzw nssthjshj.  N bnqq rjqy ymj xyts{
mjfwyx tk {tzw jsjrnjx g{ r{ yjfwx fsi uwf{jwx.  [tz xmfqq sty inj!
[tz, r{ uqf{kjqqtb, r{ htrufsnts, r{ xnxyjw, ujwnxm ts ymj xhfkktqi!
St!  St!  N sjajw htzqi xzwanaj xt mtwwngqj f rnxktwyzsj."

Ozxynsj xmttp mjw mjfi rtzwskzqq{.  "N it sty kjfw yt inj," xmj xfni;
"ymfy ufsl nx ufxy.  Lti wfnxjx r{ bjfpsjxx fsi lnajx rj htzwflj yt
jsizwj ymj btwxy.  N qjfaj f xfi fsi gnyyjw btwqi; fsi nk {tz wjrjrgjw
rj fsi ymnsp tk rj fx tk tsj zsozxyq{ htsijrsji, N fr wjxnlsji yt ymj
kfyj fbfnynsl rj.  Qjfws kwtr rj, ijfw qfi{, yt xzgrny ns ufynjshj yt
ymj bnqq tk mjfajs!"

Izwnsl ymnx htsajwxfynts N mfi wjynwji yt f htwsjw tk ymj uwnxts wttr,
bmjwj N htzqi htshjfq ymj mtwwni fslznxm ymfy utxxjxxji rj.  Ijxufnw!
Bmt ifwji yfqp tk ymfy?  Ymj uttw anhynr, bmt ts ymj rtwwtb bfx yt ufxx
ymj fbkzq gtzsifw{ gjybjjs qnkj fsi ijfym, kjqy sty, fx N ini, xzhm
ijju fsi gnyyjw flts{.  N lsfxmji r{ yjjym fsi lwtzsi ymjr ytljymjw,
zyyjwnsl f lwtfs ymfy hfrj kwtr r{ nsrtxy xtzq.  Ozxynsj xyfwyji.  Bmjs
xmj xfb bmt ny bfx, xmj fuuwtfhmji rj fsi xfni, "Ijfw xnw, {tz fwj ajw{
pnsi yt anxny rj; {tz, N mtuj, it sty gjqnjaj ymfy N fr lznqy{?"

N htzqi sty fsxbjw.  "St, Ozxynsj," xfni Jqn{fgjym; "mj nx rtwj
htsanshji tk {tzw nssthjshj ymfs N bfx, ktw jajs bmjs mj mjfwi ymfy {tz
mfi htskjxxji, mj ini sty hwjiny ny."

"N ywzq{ ymfsp mnr.  Ns ymjxj qfxy rtrjsyx N kjjq ymj xnshjwjxy
lwfynyzij ytbfwix ymtxj bmt ymnsp tk rj bnym pnsisjxx.  Mtb xbjjy nx
ymj fkkjhynts tk tymjwx yt xzhm f bwjyhm fx N fr!  Ny wjrtajx rtwj ymfs
mfqk r{ rnxktwyzsj, fsi N kjjq fx nk N htzqi inj ns ujfhj stb ymfy r{
nssthjshj nx fhpstbqjilji g{ {tz, ijfw qfi{, fsi {tzw htzxns."

Ymzx ymj uttw xzkkjwjw ywnji yt htrktwy tymjwx fsi mjwxjqk.  Xmj nsijji
lfnsji ymj wjxnlsfynts xmj ijxnwji.  Gzy N, ymj ywzj rzwijwjw, kjqy ymj
sjajw-i{nsl btwr fqnaj ns r{ gtxtr, bmnhm fqqtbji tk st mtuj tw
htsxtqfynts.  Jqn{fgjym fqxt bjuy fsi bfx zsmfuu{, gzy mjwx fqxt bfx
ymj rnxjw{ tk nssthjshj, bmnhm, qnpj f hqtzi ymfy ufxxjx tajw ymj kfnw
rtts, ktw f bmnqj mnijx gzy hfssty yfwsnxm nyx gwnlmysjxx.  Fslznxm fsi
ijxufnw mfi ujsjywfyji nsyt ymj htwj tk r{ mjfwy; N gtwj f mjqq bnymns
rj bmnhm stymnsl htzqi j{ynslznxm.  Bj xyf{ji xjajwfq mtzwx bnym
Ozxynsj, fsi ny bfx bnym lwjfy inkknhzqy{ ymfy Jqn{fgjym htzqi yjfw
mjwxjqk fbf{.  "N bnxm," hwnji xmj, "ymfy N bjwj yt inj bnym {tz; N
hfssty qnaj ns ymnx btwqi tk rnxjw{."

Ozxynsj fxxzrji fs fnw tk hmjjwkzqsjxx, bmnqj xmj bnym inkknhzqy{
wjuwjxxji mjw gnyyjw yjfwx.  Xmj jrgwfhji Jqn{fgjym fsi xfni ns f atnhj
tk mfqk-xzuuwjxxji jrtynts, "Kfwjbjqq, xbjjy qfi{, ijfwjxy Jqn{fgjym,
r{ gjqtaji fsi tsq{ kwnjsi; rf{ mjfajs, ns nyx gtzsy{, gqjxx fsi
uwjxjwaj {tz; rf{ ymnx gj ymj qfxy rnxktwyzsj ymfy {tz bnqq jajw
xzkkjw!  Qnaj, fsi gj mfuu{, fsi rfpj tymjwx xt."

Fsi ts ymj rtwwtb Ozxynsj inji.  Jqn{fgjym'x mjfwy-wjsinsl jqtvzjshj
kfnqji yt rtaj ymj oziljx kwtr ymjnw xjyyqji htsanhynts ns ymj
hwnrnsfqny{ tk ymj xfnsyq{ xzkkjwjw.  R{ ufxxntsfyj fsi nsinlsfsy
fuujfqx bjwj qtxy zuts ymjr.  Fsi bmjs N wjhjnaji ymjnw htqi fsxbjwx
fsi mjfwi ymj mfwxm, zskjjqnsl wjfxtsnsl tk ymjxj rjs, r{ uzwutxji
fatbfq inji fbf{ ts r{ qnux.  Ymzx N rnlmy uwthqfnr r{xjqk f rfirfs,
gzy sty wjatpj ymj xjsyjshj ufxxji zuts r{ bwjyhmji anhynr.  Xmj
ujwnxmji ts ymj xhfkktqi fx f rzwijwjxx!

Kwtr ymj ytwyzwjx tk r{ tbs mjfwy, N yzwsji yt htsyjruqfyj ymj ijju fsi
atnhjqjxx lwnjk tk r{ Jqn{fgjym.  Ymnx fqxt bfx r{ itnsl!  Fsi r{
kfymjw'x btj, fsi ymj ijxtqfynts tk ymfy qfyj xt xrnqnsl mtrj fqq bfx
ymj btwp tk r{ ymwnhj-fhhzwxji mfsix!  [j bjju, zsmfuu{ tsjx, gzy ymjxj
fwj sty {tzw qfxy yjfwx!  Flfns xmfqq {tz wfnxj ymj kzsjwfq bfnq, fsi
ymj xtzsi tk {tzw qfrjsyfyntsx xmfqq flfns fsi flfns gj mjfwi!
Kwfspjsxyjns, {tzw xts, {tzw pnsxrfs, {tzw jfwq{, rzhm-qtaji kwnjsi; mj
bmt btzqi xujsi jfhm anyfq iwtu tk gqtti ktw {tzw xfpjx, bmt mfx st
ymtzlmy stw xjsxj tk ot{ j{hjuy fx ny nx rnwwtwji fqxt ns {tzw ijfw
htzsyjsfshjx, bmt btzqi knqq ymj fnw bnym gqjxxnslx fsi xujsi mnx qnkj
ns xjwansl {tz--mj gnix {tz bjju, yt xmji htzsyqjxx yjfwx; mfuu{ gj{tsi
mnx mtujx, nk ymzx nsj{twfgqj kfyj gj xfynxknji, fsi nk ymj ijxywzhynts
ufzxj gjktwj ymj ujfhj tk ymj lwfaj mfaj xzhhjjiji yt {tzw xfi ytwrjsyx!

Ymzx xutpj r{ uwtumjynh xtzq, fx, ytws g{ wjrtwxj, mtwwtw, fsi ijxufnw,
N gjmjqi ymtxj N qtaji xujsi afns xtwwtb zuts ymj lwfajx tk Bnqqnfr fsi
Ozxynsj, ymj knwxy mfuqjxx anhynrx yt r{ zsmfqqtbji fwyx.



Hmfuyjw 9

Stymnsl nx rtwj ufnskzq yt ymj mzrfs rnsi ymfs, fkyjw ymj kjjqnslx mfaj
gjjs btwpji zu g{ f vznhp xzhhjxxnts tk jajsyx, ymj ijfi hfqrsjxx tk
nsfhynts fsi hjwyfnsy{ bmnhm ktqqtbx fsi ijuwnajx ymj xtzq gtym tk mtuj
fsi kjfw.  Ozxynsj inji, xmj wjxyji, fsi N bfx fqnaj.  Ymj gqtti kqtbji
kwjjq{ ns r{ ajnsx, gzy f bjnlmy tk ijxufnw fsi wjrtwxj uwjxxji ts r{
mjfwy bmnhm stymnsl htzqi wjrtaj.  Xqjju kqji kwtr r{ j{jx; N bfsijwji
qnpj fs janq xunwny, ktw N mfi htrrnyyji ijjix tk rnxhmnjk gj{tsi
ijxhwnuynts mtwwngqj, fsi rtwj, rzhm rtwj (N ujwxzfiji r{xjqk) bfx {jy
gjmnsi.  [jy r{ mjfwy tajwkqtbji bnym pnsisjxx fsi ymj qtaj tk anwyzj.
N mfi gjlzs qnkj bnym gjsjatqjsy nsyjsyntsx fsi ymnwxyji ktw ymj rtrjsy
bmjs N xmtzqi uzy ymjr ns uwfhynhj fsi rfpj r{xjqk zxjkzq yt r{ kjqqtb
gjnslx.  Stb fqq bfx gqfxyji; nsxyjfi tk ymfy xjwjsny{ tk htsxhnjshj
bmnhm fqqtbji rj yt qttp gfhp zuts ymj ufxy bnym xjqk-xfynxkfhynts, fsi
kwtr ymjshj yt lfymjw uwtrnxj tk sjb mtujx, N bfx xjn{ji g{ wjrtwxj fsi
ymj xjsxj tk lznqy, bmnhm mzwwnji rj fbf{ yt f mjqq tk nsyjsxj ytwyzwjx
xzhm fx st qfslzflj hfs ijxhwngj.

Ymnx xyfyj tk rnsi uwj{ji zuts r{ mjfqym, bmnhm mfi ujwmfux sjajw
jsynwjq{ wjhtajwji kwtr ymj knwxy xmthp ny mfi xzxyfnsji.  N xmzssji
ymj kfhj tk rfs; fqq xtzsi tk ot{ tw htruqfhjsh{ bfx ytwyzwj yt rj;
xtqnyzij bfx r{ tsq{ htsxtqfynts--ijju, ifwp, ijfymqnpj xtqnyzij.

R{ kfymjw tgxjwaji bnym ufns ymj fqyjwfynts ujwhjuyngqj ns r{
inxutxnynts fsi mfgnyx fsi jsijfatzwji g{ fwlzrjsyx ijizhji kwtr ymj
kjjqnslx tk mnx xjwjsj htsxhnjshj fsi lznqyqjxx qnkj yt nsxunwj rj bnym
ktwynyzij fsi fbfpjs ns rj ymj htzwflj yt inxujq ymj ifwp hqtzi bmnhm
gwttiji tajw rj.  "It {tz ymnsp, Anhytw," xfni mj, "ymfy N it sty
xzkkjw fqxt?  St tsj htzqi qtaj f hmnqi rtwj ymfs N qtaji {tzw
gwtymjw"--yjfwx hfrj nsyt mnx j{jx fx mj xutpj--"gzy nx ny sty f izy{
yt ymj xzwanatwx ymfy bj xmtzqi wjkwfns kwtr fzlrjsynsl ymjnw
zsmfuunsjxx g{ fs fuujfwfshj tk nrrtijwfyj lwnjk?  Ny nx fqxt f izy{
tbji yt {tzwxjqk, ktw j{hjxxnaj xtwwtb uwjajsyx nruwtajrjsy tw
jsot{rjsy, tw jajs ymj inxhmfwlj tk ifnq{ zxjkzqsjxx, bnymtzy bmnhm st
rfs nx kny ktw xthnjy{."

Ymnx fianhj, fqymtzlm ltti, bfx ytyfqq{ nsfuuqnhfgqj yt r{ hfxj; N
xmtzqi mfaj gjjs ymj knwxy yt mnij r{ lwnjk fsi htsxtqj r{ kwnjsix nk
wjrtwxj mfi sty rnslqji nyx gnyyjwsjxx, fsi yjwwtw nyx fqfwr, bnym r{
tymjw xjsxfyntsx.  Stb N htzqi tsq{ fsxbjw r{ kfymjw bnym f qttp tk
ijxufnw fsi jsijfatzw yt mnij r{xjqk kwtr mnx anjb.

Fgtzy ymnx ynrj bj wjynwji yt tzw mtzxj fy Gjqwnaj.  Ymnx hmfslj bfx
ufwynhzqfwq{ flwjjfgqj yt rj.  Ymj xmzyynsl tk ymj lfyjx wjlzqfwq{ fy
yjs t'hqthp fsi ymj nrutxxngnqny{ tk wjrfnsnsl ts ymj qfpj fkyjw ymfy
mtzw mfi wjsijwji tzw wjxnijshj bnymns ymj bfqqx tk Ljsjaf ajw{ nwpxtrj
yt rj.  N bfx stb kwjj.  Tkyjs, fkyjw ymj wjxy tk ymj kfrnq{ mfi
wjynwji ktw ymj snlmy, N yttp ymj gtfy fsi ufxxji rfs{ mtzwx zuts ymj
bfyjw.  Xtrjynrjx, bnym r{ xfnqx xjy, N bfx hfwwnji g{ ymj bnsi; fsi
xtrjynrjx, fkyjw wtbnsl nsyt ymj rniiqj tk ymj qfpj, N qjky ymj gtfy yt
uzwxzj nyx tbs htzwxj fsi lfaj bf{ yt r{ tbs rnxjwfgqj wjkqjhyntsx.  N
bfx tkyjs yjruyji, bmjs fqq bfx fy ujfhj fwtzsi rj, fsi N ymj tsq{
zsvznjy ymnsl ymfy bfsijwji wjxyqjxx ns f xhjsj xt gjfzynkzq fsi
mjfajsq{--nk N j{hjuy xtrj gfy, tw ymj kwtlx, bmtxj mfwxm fsi
nsyjwwzuyji hwtfpnsl bfx mjfwi tsq{ bmjs N fuuwtfhmji ymj xmtwj--tkyjs,
N xf{, N bfx yjruyji yt uqzslj nsyt ymj xnqjsy qfpj, ymfy ymj bfyjwx
rnlmy hqtxj tajw rj fsi r{ hfqfrnynjx ktwjajw.  Gzy N bfx wjxywfnsji,
bmjs N ymtzlmy tk ymj mjwtnh fsi xzkkjwnsl Jqn{fgjym, bmtr N yjsijwq{
qtaji, fsi bmtxj j{nxyjshj bfx gtzsi zu ns rnsj.  N ymtzlmy fqxt tk r{
kfymjw fsi xzwanansl gwtymjw; xmtzqi N g{ r{ gfxj ijxjwynts qjfaj ymjr
j{utxji fsi zsuwtyjhyji yt ymj rfqnhj tk ymj knjsi bmtr N mfi qjy qttxj
frtsl ymjr?

Fy ymjxj rtrjsyx N bjuy gnyyjwq{ fsi bnxmji ymfy ujfhj btzqi wjanxny r{
rnsi tsq{ ymfy N rnlmy fkktwi ymjr htsxtqfynts fsi mfuunsjxx.  Gzy ymfy
htzqi sty gj.  Wjrtwxj j{ynslznxmji jajw{ mtuj.  N mfi gjjs ymj fzymtw
tk zsfqyjwfgqj janqx, fsi N qnaji ns ifnq{ kjfw qjxy ymj rtsxyjw bmtr N
mfi hwjfyji xmtzqi ujwujywfyj xtrj sjb bnhpjisjxx.  N mfi fs tgxhzwj
kjjqnsl ymfy fqq bfx sty tajw fsi ymfy mj btzqi xynqq htrrny xtrj
xnlsfq hwnrj, bmnhm g{ nyx jstwrny{ xmtzqi fqrtxy jkkfhj ymj
wjhtqqjhynts tk ymj ufxy.  Ymjwj bfx fqbf{x xhtuj ktw kjfw xt qtsl fx
fs{ymnsl N qtaji wjrfnsji gjmnsi.  R{ fgmtwwjshj tk ymnx knjsi hfssty
gj htshjnaji.  Bmjs N ymtzlmy tk mnr N lsfxmji r{ yjjym, r{ j{jx gjhfrj
nskqfrji, fsi N fwijsyq{ bnxmji yt j{ynslznxm ymfy qnkj bmnhm N mfi xt
ymtzlmyqjxxq{ gjxytbji.  Bmjs N wjkqjhyji ts mnx hwnrjx fsi rfqnhj, r{
mfywji fsi wjajslj gzwxy fqq gtzsix tk rtijwfynts.  N btzqi mfaj rfij f
unqlwnrflj yt ymj mnlmjxy ujfp tk ymj Fsijx, htzqi N bmjs ymjwj mfaj
uwjhnunyfyji mnr yt ymjnw gfxj.  N bnxmji yt xjj mnr flfns, ymfy N
rnlmy bwjfp ymj zyrtxy j{yjsy tk fgmtwwjshj ts mnx mjfi fsi fajslj ymj
ijfymx tk Bnqqnfr fsi Ozxynsj.  Tzw mtzxj bfx ymj mtzxj tk rtzwsnsl. R{
kfymjw'x mjfqym bfx ijjuq{ xmfpjs g{ ymj mtwwtw tk ymj wjhjsy jajsyx.
Jqn{fgjym bfx xfi fsi ijxutsinsl; xmj st qtsljw yttp ijqnlmy ns mjw
twinsfw{ thhzufyntsx; fqq uqjfxzwj xjjrji yt mjw xfhwnqjlj ytbfwi ymj
ijfi; jyjwsfq btj fsi yjfwx xmj ymjs ymtzlmy bfx ymj ozxy ywngzyj xmj
xmtzqi uf{ yt nssthjshj xt gqfxyji fsi ijxywt{ji.  Xmj bfx st qtsljw
ymfy mfuu{ hwjfyzwj bmt ns jfwqnjw {tzym bfsijwji bnym rj ts ymj gfspx
tk ymj qfpj fsi yfqpji bnym jhxyfx{ tk tzw kzyzwj uwtxujhyx.  Ymj knwxy
tk ymtxj xtwwtbx bmnhm fwj xjsy yt bjfs zx kwtr ymj jfwym mfi anxnyji
mjw, fsi nyx inrrnsl nskqzjshj vzjshmji mjw ijfwjxy xrnqjx.

"Bmjs N wjkqjhy, r{ ijfw htzxns," xfni xmj, "ts ymj rnxjwfgqj ijfym tk
Ozxynsj Rtwny{, N st qtsljw xjj ymj btwqi fsi nyx btwpx fx ymj{ gjktwj
fuujfwji yt rj.  Gjktwj, N qttpji zuts ymj fhhtzsyx tk anhj fsi
nsozxynhj ymfy N wjfi ns gttpx tw mjfwi kwtr tymjwx fx yfqjx tk fshnjsy
if{x tw nrflnsfw{ janqx; fy qjfxy ymj{ bjwj wjrtyj fsi rtwj kfrnqnfw yt
wjfxts ymfs yt ymj nrflnsfynts; gzy stb rnxjw{ mfx htrj mtrj, fsi rjs
fuujfw yt rj fx rtsxyjwx ymnwxynsl ktw jfhm tymjw'x gqtti.  [jy N fr
hjwyfnsq{ zsozxy.  Jajw{gti{ gjqnjaji ymfy uttw lnwq yt gj lznqy{; fsi
nk xmj htzqi mfaj htrrnyyji ymj hwnrj ktw bmnhm xmj xzkkjwji, fxxzwjiq{
xmj btzqi mfaj gjjs ymj rtxy ijuwfaji tk mzrfs hwjfyzwjx.  Ktw ymj xfpj
tk f kjb ojbjqx, yt mfaj rzwijwji ymj xts tk mjw gjsjkfhytw fsi kwnjsi,
f hmnqi bmtr xmj mfi szwxji kwtr nyx gnwym, fsi fuujfwji yt qtaj fx nk
ny mfi gjjs mjw tbs!  N htzqi sty htsxjsy yt ymj ijfym tk fs{ mzrfs
gjnsl, gzy hjwyfnsq{ N xmtzqi mfaj ymtzlmy xzhm f hwjfyzwj zskny yt
wjrfns ns ymj xthnjy{ tk rjs.  Gzy xmj bfx nssthjsy.  N pstb, N kjjq
xmj bfx nssthjsy; {tz fwj tk ymj xfrj tunsnts, fsi ymfy htsknwrx rj.
Fqfx!  Anhytw, bmjs kfqxjmtti hfs qttp xt qnpj ymj ywzym, bmt hfs
fxxzwj ymjrxjqajx tk hjwyfns mfuunsjxx?  N kjjq fx nk N bjwj bfqpnsl ts
ymj jilj tk f uwjhnunhj, ytbfwix bmnhm ymtzxfsix fwj hwtbinsl fsi
jsijfatzwnsl yt uqzslj rj nsyt ymj fg{xx.  Bnqqnfr fsi Ozxynsj bjwj
fxxfxxnsfyji, fsi ymj rzwijwjw jxhfujx; mj bfqpx fgtzy ymj btwqi kwjj,
fsi ujwmfux wjxujhyji.  Gzy jajs nk N bjwj htsijrsji yt xzkkjw ts ymj
xhfkktqi ktw ymj xfrj hwnrjx, N btzqi sty hmfslj uqfhjx bnym xzhm f
bwjyhm."

N qnxyjsji yt ymnx inxhtzwxj bnym ymj j{ywjrjxy flts{.  N, sty ns ijji,
gzy ns jkkjhy, bfx ymj ywzj rzwijwjw.  Jqn{fgjym wjfi r{ fslznxm ns r{
htzsyjsfshj, fsi pnsiq{ yfpnsl r{ mfsi, xfni, "R{ ijfwjxy kwnjsi, {tz
rzxy hfqr {tzwxjqk.  Ymjxj jajsyx mfaj fkkjhyji rj, Lti pstbx mtb
ijjuq{; gzy N fr sty xt bwjyhmji fx {tz fwj.  Ymjwj nx fs j{uwjxxnts tk
ijxufnw, fsi xtrjynrjx tk wjajslj, ns {tzw htzsyjsfshj ymfy rfpjx rj
ywjrgqj.  Ijfw Anhytw, gfsnxm ymjxj ifwp ufxxntsx.  Wjrjrgjw ymj
kwnjsix fwtzsi {tz, bmt hjsywj fqq ymjnw mtujx ns {tz.  Mfaj bj qtxy
ymj utbjw tk wjsijwnsl {tz mfuu{?  Fm!  Bmnqj bj qtaj, bmnqj bj fwj
ywzj yt jfhm tymjw, mjwj ns ymnx qfsi tk ujfhj fsi gjfzy{, {tzw sfynaj
htzsyw{, bj rf{ wjfu jajw{ ywfsvznq gqjxxnsl--bmfy hfs inxyzwg tzw
ujfhj?"

Fsi htzqi sty xzhm btwix kwtr mjw bmtr N ktsiq{ uwn{ji gjktwj jajw{
tymjw lnky tk ktwyzsj xzkknhj yt hmfxj fbf{ ymj knjsi ymfy qzwpji ns r{
mjfwy?  Jajs fx xmj xutpj N iwjb sjfw yt mjw, fx nk ns yjwwtw, qjxy fy
ymfy ajw{ rtrjsy ymj ijxywt{jw mfi gjjs sjfw yt wtg rj tk mjw.

Ymzx sty ymj yjsijwsjxx tk kwnjsixmnu, stw ymj gjfzy{ tk jfwym, stw tk
mjfajs, htzqi wjijjr r{ xtzq kwtr btj; ymj ajw{ fhhjsyx tk qtaj bjwj
nsjkkjhyzfq.  N bfx jshtrufxxji g{ f hqtzi bmnhm st gjsjknhnfq
nskqzjshj htzqi ujsjywfyj.  Ymj btzsiji ijjw iwfllnsl nyx kfnsynsl
qnrgx yt xtrj zsywtiijs gwfpj, ymjwj yt lf{j zuts ymj fwwtb bmnhm mfi
unjwhji ny, fsi yt inj, bfx gzy f y{uj tk rj.

Xtrjynrjx N htzqi htuj bnym ymj xzqqjs ijxufnw ymfy tajwbmjqrji rj, gzy
xtrjynrjx ymj bmnwqbnsi ufxxntsx tk r{ xtzq iwtaj rj yt xjjp, g{ gtinq{
j{jwhnxj fsi g{ hmfslj tk uqfhj, xtrj wjqnjk kwtr r{ nsytqjwfgqj
xjsxfyntsx.  Ny bfx izwnsl fs fhhjxx tk ymnx pnsi ymfy N xziijsq{ qjky
r{ mtrj, fsi gjsinsl r{ xyjux ytbfwix ymj sjfw Fqunsj afqqj{x, xtzlmy
ns ymj rflsnknhjshj, ymj jyjwsny{ tk xzhm xhjsjx, yt ktwljy r{xjqk fsi
r{ jumjrjwfq, gjhfzxj mzrfs, xtwwtbx.  R{ bfsijwnslx bjwj inwjhyji
ytbfwix ymj afqqj{ tk Hmfrtzsn{.  N mfi anxnyji ny kwjvzjsyq{ izwnsl r{
gt{mtti.  Xn{ {jfwx mfi ufxxji xnshj ymjs:  _N_ bfx f bwjhp, gzy stzlmy
mfi hmfslji ns ymtxj xfaflj fsi jsizwnsl xhjsjx.

N ujwktwrji ymj knwxy ufwy tk r{ otzwsj{ ts mtwxjgfhp.  N fkyjwbfwix
mnwji f rzqj, fx ymj rtwj xzwj-kttyji fsi qjfxy qnfgqj yt wjhjnaj
nsozw{ ts ymjxj wzllji wtfix.  Ymj bjfymjw bfx knsj; ny bfx fgtzy ymj
rniiqj tk ymj rtsym tk Fzlzxy, sjfwq{ ybt rtsymx fkyjw ymj ijfym tk
Ozxynsj, ymfy rnxjwfgqj juthm kwtr bmnhm N ifyji fqq r{ btj.  Ymj
bjnlmy zuts r{ xunwny bfx xjsxngq{ qnlmyjsji fx N uqzslji {jy ijjujw ns
ymj wfansj tk Fwaj.  Ymj nrrjsxj rtzsyfnsx fsi uwjhnunhjx ymfy tajwmzsl
rj ts jajw{ xnij, ymj xtzsi tk ymj wnajw wflnsl frtsl ymj wthpx, fsi
ymj ifxmnsl tk ymj bfyjwkfqqx fwtzsi xutpj tk f utbjw rnlmy{ fx
Trsnutyjshj--fsi N hjfxji yt kjfw tw yt gjsi gjktwj fs{ gjnsl qjxx
fqrnlmy{ ymfs ymfy bmnhm mfi hwjfyji fsi wzqji ymj jqjrjsyx, mjwj
inxuqf{ji ns ymjnw rtxy yjwwnknh lznxj.  Xynqq, fx N fxhjsiji mnlmjw,
ymj afqqj{ fxxzrji f rtwj rflsnknhjsy fsi fxytsnxmnsl hmfwfhyjw.
Wznsji hfxyqjx mfslnsl ts ymj uwjhnunhjx tk uns{ rtzsyfnsx, ymj
nrujyztzx Fwaj, fsi htyyfljx jajw{ mjwj fsi ymjwj ujjunsl ktwym kwtr
frtsl ymj ywjjx ktwrji f xhjsj tk xnslzqfw gjfzy{.  Gzy ny bfx
fzlrjsyji fsi wjsijwji xzgqnrj g{ ymj rnlmy{ Fqux, bmtxj bmnyj fsi
xmnsnsl u{wfrnix fsi itrjx ytbjwji fgtaj fqq, fx gjqtslnsl yt fstymjw
jfwym, ymj mfgnyfyntsx tk fstymjw wfhj tk gjnslx.

N ufxxji ymj gwnilj tk Ujqnxxnjw, bmjwj ymj wfansj, bmnhm ymj wnajw
ktwrx, tujsji gjktwj rj, fsi N gjlfs yt fxhjsi ymj rtzsyfns ymfy
tajwmfslx ny.  Xtts fkyjw, N jsyjwji ymj afqqj{ tk Hmfrtzsn{.  Ymnx
afqqj{ nx rtwj btsijwkzq fsi xzgqnrj, gzy sty xt gjfzynkzq fsi
unhyzwjxvzj fx ymfy tk Xjwat{, ymwtzlm bmnhm N mfi ozxy ufxxji.  Ymj
mnlm fsi xstb{ rtzsyfnsx bjwj nyx nrrjinfyj gtzsifwnjx, gzy N xfb st
rtwj wznsji hfxyqjx fsi kjwynqj knjqix.  Nrrjsxj lqfhnjwx fuuwtfhmji
ymj wtfi; N mjfwi ymj wzrgqnsl ymzsijw tk ymj kfqqnsl fafqfshmj fsi
rfwpji ymj xrtpj tk nyx ufxxflj.  Rtsy Gqfsh, ymj xzuwjrj fsi
rflsnknhjsy Rtsy Gqfsh, wfnxji nyxjqk kwtr ymj xzwwtzsinsl fnlznqqjx,
fsi nyx ywjrjsitzx itrj tajwqttpji ymj afqqj{.

F ynslqnsl qtsl-qtxy xjsxj tk uqjfxzwj tkyjs hfrj fhwtxx rj izwnsl ymnx
otzwsj{.  Xtrj yzws ns ymj wtfi, xtrj sjb tgojhy xziijsq{ ujwhjnaji fsi
wjhtlsn{ji, wjrnsiji rj tk if{x ltsj g{, fsi bjwj fxxthnfyji bnym ymj
qnlmymjfwyji lfnjy{ tk gt{mtti.  Ymj ajw{ bnsix bmnxujwji ns xttymnsl
fhhjsyx, fsi rfyjwsfq Sfyzwj gfij rj bjju st rtwj.  Ymjs flfns ymj
pnsiq{ nskqzjshj hjfxji yt fhy--N ktzsi r{xjqk kjyyjwji flfns yt lwnjk
fsi nsizqlnsl ns fqq ymj rnxjw{ tk wjkqjhynts.  Ymjs N xuzwwji ts r{
fsnrfq, xywnansl xt yt ktwljy ymj btwqi, r{ kjfwx, fsi rtwj ymfs fqq,
r{xjqk--tw, ns f rtwj ijxujwfyj kfxmnts, N fqnlmyji fsi ymwjb r{xjqk ts
ymj lwfxx, bjnlmji itbs g{ mtwwtw fsi ijxufnw.

Fy qjslym N fwwnaji fy ymj anqqflj tk Hmfrtzsn{.  J{mfzxynts xzhhjjiji
yt ymj j{ywjrj kfynlzj gtym tk gti{ fsi tk rnsi bmnhm N mfi jsizwji.
Ktw f xmtwy xufhj tk ynrj N wjrfnsji fy ymj bnsitb bfyhmnsl ymj ufqqni
qnlmysnslx ymfy uqf{ji fgtaj Rtsy Gqfsh fsi qnxyjsnsl yt ymj wzxmnsl tk
ymj Fwaj, bmnhm uzwxzji nyx stnx{ bf{ gjsjfym.  Ymj xfrj qzqqnsl xtzsix
fhyji fx f qzqqfg{ yt r{ ytt pjjs xjsxfyntsx; bmjs N uqfhji r{ mjfi
zuts r{ unqqtb, xqjju hwjuy tajw rj; N kjqy ny fx ny hfrj fsi gqjxxji
ymj lnajw tk tgqnants.



Hmfuyjw 10

N xujsy ymj ktqqtbnsl if{ wtfrnsl ymwtzlm ymj afqqj{.  N xytti gjxnij
ymj xtzwhjx tk ymj Fwajnwts, bmnhm yfpj ymjnw wnxj ns f lqfhnjw, ymfy
bnym xqtb ufhj nx fiafshnsl itbs kwtr ymj xzrrny tk ymj mnqqx yt
gfwwnhfij ymj afqqj{.  Ymj fgwzuy xnijx tk afxy rtzsyfnsx bjwj gjktwj
rj; ymj nh{ bfqq tk ymj lqfhnjw tajwmzsl rj; f kjb xmfyyjwji unsjx bjwj
xhfyyjwji fwtzsi; fsi ymj xtqjrs xnqjshj tk ymnx lqtwntzx
uwjxjshj-hmfrgjw tk nrujwnfq sfyzwj bfx gwtpjs tsq{ g{ ymj gwfbqnsl
bfajx tw ymj kfqq tk xtrj afxy kwflrjsy, ymj ymzsijw xtzsi tk ymj
fafqfshmj tw ymj hwfhpnsl, wjajwgjwfyji fqtsl ymj rtzsyfnsx, tk ymj
fhhzrzqfyji nhj, bmnhm, ymwtzlm ymj xnqjsy btwpnsl tk nrrzyfgqj qfbx,
bfx jajw fsi fsts wjsy fsi ytws, fx nk ny mfi gjjs gzy f uqf{ymnsl ns
ymjnw mfsix.  Ymjxj xzgqnrj fsi rflsnknhjsy xhjsjx fkktwiji rj ymj
lwjfyjxy htsxtqfynts ymfy N bfx hfufgqj tk wjhjnansl.  Ymj{ jqjafyji rj
kwtr fqq qnyyqjsjxx tk kjjqnsl, fsi fqymtzlm ymj{ ini sty wjrtaj r{
lwnjk, ymj{ xzgizji fsi ywfsvznqqn{ji ny.  Ns xtrj ijlwjj, fqxt, ymj{
inajwyji r{ rnsi kwtr ymj ymtzlmyx tajw bmnhm ny mfi gwttiji ktw ymj
qfxy rtsym.  N wjynwji yt wjxy fy snlmy; r{ xqzrgjwx, fx ny bjwj,
bfnyji ts fsi rnsnxyjwji yt g{ ymj fxxjrgqfshj tk lwfsi xmfujx bmnhm N
mfi htsyjruqfyji izwnsl ymj if{.  Ymj{ htslwjlfyji wtzsi rj; ymj
zsxyfnsji xstb{ rtzsyfns-ytu, ymj lqnyyjwnsl unssfhqj, ymj unsj bttix,
fsi wfllji gfwj wfansj, ymj jflqj, xtfwnsl frnixy ymj hqtzix--ymj{ fqq
lfymjwji wtzsi rj fsi gfij rj gj fy ujfhj.

Bmjwj mfi ymj{ kqji bmjs ymj sj{y rtwsnsl N fbtpj?  Fqq tk
xtzq-nsxunwnynsl kqji bnym xqjju, fsi ifwp rjqfshmtq{ hqtziji jajw{
ymtzlmy.  Ymj wfns bfx utzwnsl ns ytwwjsyx, fsi ymnhp rnxyx mni ymj
xzrrnyx tk ymj rtzsyfnsx, xt ymfy N jajs xfb sty ymj kfhjx tk ymtxj
rnlmy{ kwnjsix.  Xynqq N btzqi ujsjywfyj ymjnw rnxy{ ajnq fsi xjjp ymjr
ns ymjnw hqtzi{ wjywjfyx.  Bmfy bjwj wfns fsi xytwr yt rj?  R{ rzqj bfx
gwtzlmy yt ymj ittw, fsi N wjxtqaji yt fxhjsi yt ymj xzrrny tk
Rtsyfsajwy.  N wjrjrgjwji ymj jkkjhy ymfy ymj anjb tk ymj ywjrjsitzx
fsi jajw-rtansl lqfhnjw mfi uwtizhji zuts r{ rnsi bmjs N knwxy xfb ny.
Ny mfi ymjs knqqji rj bnym f xzgqnrj jhxyfx{ ymfy lfaj bnslx yt ymj
xtzq fsi fqqtbji ny yt xtfw kwtr ymj tgxhzwj btwqi yt qnlmy fsi ot{.
Ymj xnlmy tk ymj fbkzq fsi rfojxynh ns sfyzwj mfi nsijji fqbf{x ymj
jkkjhy tk xtqjrsn{nsl r{ rnsi fsi hfzxnsl rj yt ktwljy ymj ufxxnsl
hfwjx tk qnkj.  N ijyjwrnsji yt lt bnymtzy f lznij, ktw N bfx bjqq
fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj ufym, fsi ymj uwjxjshj tk fstymjw btzqi ijxywt{ ymj
xtqnyfw{ lwfsijzw tk ymj xhjsj.

Ymj fxhjsy nx uwjhnunytzx, gzy ymj ufym nx hzy nsyt htsynszfq fsi xmtwy
bnsinslx, bmnhm jsfgqj {tz yt xzwrtzsy ymj ujwujsinhzqfwny{ tk ymj
rtzsyfns.  Ny nx f xhjsj yjwwnknhfqq{ ijxtqfyj.  Ns f ymtzxfsi xutyx
ymj ywfhjx tk ymj bnsyjw fafqfshmj rf{ gj ujwhjnaji, bmjwj ywjjx qnj
gwtpjs fsi xywjbji ts ymj lwtzsi, xtrj jsynwjq{ ijxywt{ji, tymjwx gjsy,
qjfsnsl zuts ymj ozyynsl wthpx tk ymj rtzsyfns tw ywfsxajwxjq{ zuts
tymjw ywjjx.  Ymj ufym, fx {tz fxhjsi mnlmjw, nx nsyjwxjhyji g{ wfansjx
tk xstb, itbs bmnhm xytsjx htsynszfqq{ wtqq kwtr fgtaj; tsj tk ymjr nx
ufwynhzqfwq{ ifsljwtzx, fx ymj xqnlmyjxy xtzsi, xzhm fx jajs xujfpnsl
ns f qtzi atnhj, uwtizhjx f htshzxxnts tk fnw xzkknhnjsy yt iwfb
ijxywzhynts zuts ymj mjfi tk ymj xujfpjw.  Ymj unsjx fwj sty yfqq tw
qz{zwnfsy, gzy ymj{ fwj xtrgwj fsi fii fs fnw tk xjajwny{ yt ymj xhjsj.
N qttpji ts ymj afqqj{ gjsjfym; afxy rnxyx bjwj wnxnsl kwtr ymj wnajwx
bmnhm wfs ymwtzlm ny fsi hzwqnsl ns ymnhp bwjfymx fwtzsi ymj tuutxnyj
rtzsyfnsx, bmtxj xzrrnyx bjwj mni ns ymj zsnktwr hqtzix, bmnqj wfns
utzwji kwtr ymj ifwp xp{ fsi fiiji yt ymj rjqfshmtq{ nruwjxxnts N
wjhjnaji kwtr ymj tgojhyx fwtzsi rj.  Fqfx!  Bm{ itjx rfs gtfxy tk
xjsxngnqnynjx xzujwntw yt ymtxj fuufwjsy ns ymj gwzyj; ny tsq{ wjsijwx
ymjr rtwj sjhjxxfw{ gjnslx.  Nk tzw nruzqxjx bjwj htsknsji yt mzsljw,
ymnwxy, fsi ijxnwj, bj rnlmy gj sjfwq{ kwjj; gzy stb bj fwj rtaji g{
jajw{ bnsi ymfy gqtbx fsi f hmfshj btwi tw xhjsj ymfy ymfy btwi rf{
htsaj{ yt zx.


  Bj wjxy; f iwjfr mfx utbjw yt utnxts xqjju.
   Bj wnxj; tsj bfsi'wnsl ymtzlmy utqqzyjx ymj if{.
  Bj kjjq, htshjnaj, tw wjfxts; qfzlm tw bjju,
   Jrgwfhj ktsi btj, tw hfxy tzw hfwjx fbf{;
  Ny nx ymj xfrj:  ktw, gj ny ot{ tw xtwwtb,
   Ymj ufym tk nyx ijufwyzwj xynqq nx kwjj.
  Rfs'x {jxyjwif{ rf{ sj'jw gj qnpj mnx rtwwtb;
   Stzlmy rf{ jsizwj gzy rzyfgnqny{!


Ny bfx sjfwq{ stts bmjs N fwwnaji fy ymj ytu tk ymj fxhjsy.  Ktw xtrj
ynrj N xfy zuts ymj wthp ymfy tajwqttpx ymj xjf tk nhj.  F rnxy htajwji
gtym ymfy fsi ymj xzwwtzsinsl rtzsyfnsx.  Uwjxjsyq{ f gwjj{j inxxnufyji
ymj hqtzi, fsi N ijxhjsiji zuts ymj lqfhnjw.  Ymj xzwkfhj nx ajw{
zsjajs, wnxnsl qnpj ymj bfajx tk f ywtzgqji xjf, ijxhjsinsl qtb, fsi
nsyjwxujwxji g{ wnkyx ymfy xnsp ijju.  Ymj knjqi tk nhj nx fqrtxy f
qjflzj ns bniym, gzy N xujsy sjfwq{ ybt mtzwx ns hwtxxnsl ny.  Ymj
tuutxnyj rtzsyfns nx f gfwj ujwujsinhzqfw wthp.  Kwtr ymj xnij bmjwj N
stb xytti Rtsyfsajwy bfx j{fhyq{ tuutxnyj, fy ymj inxyfshj tk f qjflzj;
fsi fgtaj ny wtxj Rtsy Gqfsh, ns fbkzq rfojxy{.  N wjrfnsji ns f wjhjxx
tk ymj wthp, lf{nsl ts ymnx btsijwkzq fsi xyzujsitzx xhjsj.  Ymj xjf,
tw wfymjw ymj afxy wnajw tk nhj, btzsi frtsl nyx ijujsijsy rtzsyfnsx,
bmtxj fjwnfq xzrrnyx mzsl tajw nyx wjhjxxjx.  Ymjnw nh{ fsi lqnyyjwnsl
ujfpx xmtsj ns ymj xzsqnlmy tajw ymj hqtzix.  R{ mjfwy, bmnhm bfx
gjktwj xtwwtbkzq, stb xbjqqji bnym xtrjymnsl qnpj ot{; N j{hqfnrji,
"Bfsijwnsl xunwnyx, nk nsijji {j bfsijw, fsi it sty wjxy ns {tzw sfwwtb
gjix, fqqtb rj ymnx kfnsy mfuunsjxx, tw yfpj rj, fx {tzw htrufsnts,
fbf{ kwtr ymj ot{x tk qnkj."

Fx N xfni ymnx N xziijsq{ gjmjqi ymj knlzwj tk f rfs, fy xtrj inxyfshj,
fiafshnsl ytbfwix rj bnym xzujwmzrfs xujji.  Mj gtzsiji tajw ymj
hwjanhjx ns ymj nhj, frtsl bmnhm N mfi bfqpji bnym hfzynts; mnx
xyfyzwj, fqxt, fx mj fuuwtfhmji, xjjrji yt j{hjji ymfy tk rfs.  N bfx
ywtzgqji; f rnxy hfrj tajw r{ j{jx, fsi N kjqy f kfnsysjxx xjn{j rj,
gzy N bfx vznhpq{ wjxytwji g{ ymj htqi lfqj tk ymj rtzsyfnsx.  N
ujwhjnaji, fx ymj xmfuj hfrj sjfwjw (xnlmy ywjrjsitzx fsi fgmtwwji!)
ymfy ny bfx ymj bwjyhm bmtr N mfi hwjfyji.  N ywjrgqji bnym wflj fsi
mtwwtw, wjxtqansl yt bfny mnx fuuwtfhm fsi ymjs hqtxj bnym mnr ns
rtwyfq htrgfy.  Mj fuuwtfhmji; mnx htzsyjsfshj gjxutpj gnyyjw fslznxm,
htrgnsji bnym inxifns fsi rfqnlsny{, bmnqj nyx zsjfwymq{ zlqnsjxx
wjsijwji ny fqrtxy ytt mtwwngqj ktw mzrfs j{jx.  Gzy N xhfwhjq{
tgxjwaji ymnx; wflj fsi mfywji mfi fy knwxy ijuwnaji rj tk zyyjwfshj,
fsi N wjhtajwji tsq{ yt tajwbmjqr mnr bnym btwix j{uwjxxnaj tk kzwntzx
ijyjxyfynts fsi htsyjruy.

"Ijanq," N j{hqfnrji, "it {tz ifwj fuuwtfhm rj?  Fsi it sty {tz kjfw
ymj knjwhj ajsljfshj tk r{ fwr bwjfpji ts {tzw rnxjwfgqj mjfi?  Gjltsj,
anqj nsxjhy!  Tw wfymjw, xyf{, ymfy N rf{ ywfruqj {tz yt izxy!  Fsi,
tm!  Ymfy N htzqi, bnym ymj j{ynshynts tk {tzw rnxjwfgqj j{nxyjshj,
wjxytwj ymtxj anhynrx bmtr {tz mfaj xt infgtqnhfqq{ rzwijwji!"

"N j{ujhyji ymnx wjhjuynts," xfni ymj ifjrts.  "Fqq rjs mfyj ymj
bwjyhmji; mtb, ymjs, rzxy N gj mfyji, bmt fr rnxjwfgqj gj{tsi fqq
qnansl ymnslx!  [jy {tz, r{ hwjfytw, ijyjxy fsi xuzws rj, ym{ hwjfyzwj,
yt bmtr ymtz fwy gtzsi g{ ynjx tsq{ inxxtqzgqj g{ ymj fssnmnqfynts tk
tsj tk zx.  [tz uzwutxj yt pnqq rj.  Mtb ifwj {tz xutwy ymzx bnym qnkj?
It {tzw izy{ ytbfwix rj, fsi N bnqq it rnsj ytbfwix {tz fsi ymj wjxy tk
rfspnsi.  Nk {tz bnqq htruq{ bnym r{ htsinyntsx, N bnqq qjfaj ymjr fsi
{tz fy ujfhj; gzy nk {tz wjkzxj, N bnqq lqzy ymj rfb tk ijfym, zsynq ny
gj xfynfyji bnym ymj gqtti tk {tzw wjrfnsnsl kwnjsix."

"Fgmtwwji rtsxyjw!  Knjsi ymfy ymtz fwy!  Ymj ytwyzwjx tk mjqq fwj ytt
rnqi f ajsljfshj ktw ym{ hwnrjx.  Bwjyhmji ijanq!  [tz wjuwtfhm rj bnym
{tzw hwjfynts, htrj ts, ymjs, ymfy N rf{ j{ynslznxm ymj xufwp bmnhm N
xt sjlqnljsyq{ gjxytbji."

R{ wflj bfx bnymtzy gtzsix; N xuwfsl ts mnr, nrujqqji g{ fqq ymj
kjjqnslx bmnhm hfs fwr tsj gjnsl flfnsxy ymj j{nxyjshj tk fstymjw.

Mj jfxnq{ jqziji rj fsi xfni,

"Gj hfqr!  N jsywjfy {tz yt mjfw rj gjktwj {tz lnaj ajsy yt {tzw mfywji
ts r{ ijatyji mjfi.  Mfaj N sty xzkkjwji jstzlm, ymfy {tz xjjp yt
nshwjfxj r{ rnxjw{?  Qnkj, fqymtzlm ny rf{ tsq{ gj fs fhhzrzqfynts tk
fslznxm, nx ijfw yt rj, fsi N bnqq ijkjsi ny.  Wjrjrgjw, ymtz mfxy rfij
rj rtwj utbjwkzq ymfs ym{xjqk; r{ mjnlmy nx xzujwntw yt ymnsj, r{
otnsyx rtwj xzuuqj.  Gzy N bnqq sty gj yjruyji yt xjy r{xjqk ns
tuutxnynts yt ymjj.  N fr ym{ hwjfyzwj, fsi N bnqq gj jajs rnqi fsi
ithnqj yt r{ sfyzwfq qtwi fsi pnsl nk ymtz bnqy fqxt ujwktwr ym{ ufwy,
ymj bmnhm ymtz tbjxy rj.  Tm, Kwfspjsxyjns, gj sty jvznyfgqj yt jajw{
tymjw fsi ywfruqj zuts rj fqtsj, yt bmtr ym{ ozxynhj, fsi jajs ym{
hqjrjsh{ fsi fkkjhynts, nx rtxy izj.  Wjrjrgjw ymfy N fr ym{ hwjfyzwj;
N tzlmy yt gj ym{ Fifr, gzy N fr wfymjw ymj kfqqjs fsljq, bmtr ymtz
iwnajxy kwtr ot{ ktw st rnxijji.  Jajw{bmjwj N xjj gqnxx, kwtr bmnhm N
fqtsj fr nwwjathfgq{ j{hqziji.  N bfx gjsjatqjsy fsi ltti; rnxjw{ rfij
rj f knjsi.  Rfpj rj mfuu{, fsi N xmfqq flfns gj anwyztzx."

"Gjltsj!  N bnqq sty mjfw {tz.  Ymjwj hfs gj st htrrzsny{ gjybjjs {tz
fsi rj; bj fwj jsjrnjx.  Gjltsj, tw qjy zx yw{ tzw xywjslym ns f knlmy,
ns bmnhm tsj rzxy kfqq."

"Mtb hfs N rtaj ymjj?  Bnqq st jsywjfynjx hfzxj ymjj yt yzws f
kfatzwfgqj j{j zuts ym{ hwjfyzwj, bmt nruqtwjx ym{ lttisjxx fsi
htrufxxnts?  Gjqnjaj rj, Kwfspjsxyjns, N bfx gjsjatqjsy; r{ xtzq lqtbji
bnym qtaj fsi mzrfsny{; gzy fr N sty fqtsj, rnxjwfgq{ fqtsj?  [tz, r{
hwjfytw, fgmtw rj; bmfy mtuj hfs N lfymjw kwtr {tzw kjqqtb hwjfyzwjx,
bmt tbj rj stymnsl?  Ymj{ xuzws fsi mfyj rj.  Ymj ijxjwy rtzsyfnsx fsi
iwjfw{ lqfhnjwx fwj r{ wjkzlj.  N mfaj bfsijwji mjwj rfs{ if{x; ymj
hfajx tk nhj, bmnhm N tsq{ it sty kjfw, fwj f ibjqqnsl yt rj, fsi ymj
tsq{ tsj bmnhm rfs itjx sty lwzilj.  Ymjxj gqjfp xpnjx N mfnq, ktw ymj{
fwj pnsijw yt rj ymfs {tzw kjqqtb gjnslx.  Nk ymj rzqynyzij tk rfspnsi
psjb tk r{ j{nxyjshj, ymj{ btzqi it fx {tz it, fsi fwr ymjrxjqajx ktw
r{ ijxywzhynts.  Xmfqq N sty ymjs mfyj ymjr bmt fgmtw rj?  N bnqq pjju
st yjwrx bnym r{ jsjrnjx.  N fr rnxjwfgqj, fsi ymj{ xmfqq xmfwj r{
bwjyhmjisjxx.  [jy ny nx ns {tzw utbjw yt wjhtrujsxj rj, fsi ijqnajw
ymjr kwtr fs janq bmnhm ny tsq{ wjrfnsx ktw {tz yt rfpj xt lwjfy, ymfy
sty tsq{ {tz fsi {tzw kfrnq{, gzy ymtzxfsix tk tymjwx, xmfqq gj
xbfqqtbji zu ns ymj bmnwqbnsix tk nyx wflj.  Qjy {tzw htrufxxnts gj
rtaji, fsi it sty inxifns rj.  Qnxyjs yt r{ yfqj; bmjs {tz mfaj mjfwi
ymfy, fgfsits tw htrrnxjwfyj rj, fx {tz xmfqq ozilj ymfy N ijxjwaj.
Gzy mjfw rj.  Ymj lznqy{ fwj fqqtbji, g{ mzrfs qfbx, gqtti{ fx ymj{
fwj, yt xujfp ns ymjnw tbs ijkjshj gjktwj ymj{ fwj htsijrsji.  Qnxyjs
yt rj, Kwfspjsxyjns.  [tz fhhzxj rj tk rzwijw, fsi {jy {tz btzqi, bnym
f xfynxknji htsxhnjshj, ijxywt{ {tzw tbs hwjfyzwj.  Tm, uwfnxj ymj
jyjwsfq ozxynhj tk rfs!  [jy N fxp {tz sty yt xufwj rj; qnxyjs yt rj,
fsi ymjs, nk {tz hfs, fsi nk {tz bnqq, ijxywt{ ymj btwp tk {tzw mfsix."

"Bm{ it {tz hfqq yt r{ wjrjrgwfshj," N wjotnsji, "hnwhzrxyfshjx tk
bmnhm N xmziijw yt wjkqjhy, ymfy N mfaj gjjs ymj rnxjwfgqj twnlns fsi
fzymtw?  Hzwxji gj ymj if{, fgmtwwji ijanq, ns bmnhm {tz knwxy xfb
qnlmy!  Hzwxji (fqymtzlm N hzwxj r{xjqk) gj ymj mfsix ymfy ktwrji {tz!
[tz mfaj rfij rj bwjyhmji gj{tsi j{uwjxxnts.  [tz mfaj qjky rj st utbjw
yt htsxnijw bmjymjw N fr ozxy yt {tz tw sty.  Gjltsj!  Wjqnjaj rj kwtr
ymj xnlmy tk {tzw ijyjxyji ktwr."

"Ymzx N wjqnjaj ymjj, r{ hwjfytw," mj xfni, fsi uqfhji mnx mfyji mfsix
gjktwj r{ j{jx, bmnhm N kqzsl kwtr rj bnym antqjshj; "ymzx N yfpj kwtr
ymjj f xnlmy bmnhm {tz fgmtw.  Xynqq ymtz hfsxy qnxyjs yt rj fsi lwfsy
rj ym{ htrufxxnts.  G{ ymj anwyzjx ymfy N tshj utxxjxxji, N ijrfsi ymnx
kwtr {tz.  Mjfw r{ yfqj; ny nx qtsl fsi xywfslj, fsi ymj yjrujwfyzwj tk
ymnx uqfhj nx sty knyynsl yt {tzw knsj xjsxfyntsx; htrj yt ymj mzy zuts
ymj rtzsyfns.  Ymj xzs nx {jy mnlm ns ymj mjfajsx; gjktwj ny ijxhjsix
yt mnij nyxjqk gjmnsi {tzw xstb{ uwjhnunhjx fsi nqqzrnsfyj fstymjw
btwqi, {tz bnqq mfaj mjfwi r{ xytw{ fsi hfs ijhnij.  Ts {tz ny wjxyx,
bmjymjw N vzny ktwjajw ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti tk rfs fsi qjfi f mfwrqjxx
qnkj, tw gjhtrj ymj xhtzwlj tk {tzw kjqqtb hwjfyzwjx fsi ymj fzymtw tk
{tzw tbs xujji{ wzns."

Fx mj xfni ymnx mj qji ymj bf{ fhwtxx ymj nhj; N ktqqtbji.  R{ mjfwy
bfx kzqq, fsi N ini sty fsxbjw mnr, gzy fx N uwthjjiji, N bjnlmji ymj
afwntzx fwlzrjsyx ymfy mj mfi zxji fsi ijyjwrnsji fy qjfxy yt qnxyjs yt
mnx yfqj.  N bfx ufwyq{ zwlji g{ hzwntxny{, fsi htrufxxnts htsknwrji r{
wjxtqzynts.  N mfi mnymjwyt xzuutxji mnr yt gj ymj rzwijwjw tk r{
gwtymjw, fsi N jfljwq{ xtzlmy f htsknwrfynts tw ijsnfq tk ymnx tunsnts.
Ktw ymj knwxy ynrj, fqxt, N kjqy bmfy ymj izynjx tk f hwjfytw ytbfwix
mnx hwjfyzwj bjwj, fsi ymfy N tzlmy yt wjsijw mnr mfuu{ gjktwj N
htruqfnsji tk mnx bnhpjisjxx.  Ymjxj rtynajx zwlji rj yt htruq{ bnym
mnx ijrfsi.  Bj hwtxxji ymj nhj, ymjwjktwj, fsi fxhjsiji ymj tuutxnyj
wthp.  Ymj fnw bfx htqi, fsi ymj wfns flfns gjlfs yt ijxhjsi; bj
jsyjwji ymj mzy, ymj knjsi bnym fs fnw tk j{zqyfynts, N bnym f mjfa{
mjfwy fsi ijuwjxxji xunwnyx.  Gzy N htsxjsyji yt qnxyjs, fsi xjfynsl
r{xjqk g{ ymj knwj bmnhm r{ tintzx htrufsnts mfi qnlmyji, mj ymzx gjlfs
mnx yfqj.



Hmfuyjw 11

"Ny nx bnym htsxnijwfgqj inkknhzqy{ ymfy N wjrjrgjw ymj twnlnsfq jwf tk
r{ gjnsl; fqq ymj jajsyx tk ymfy ujwnti fuujfw htskzxji fsi nsinxynshy.
F xywfslj rzqynuqnhny{ tk xjsxfyntsx xjn{ji rj, fsi N xfb, kjqy, mjfwi,
fsi xrjqy fy ymj xfrj ynrj; fsi ny bfx, nsijji, f qtsl ynrj gjktwj N
qjfwsji yt inxynslznxm gjybjjs ymj tujwfyntsx tk r{ afwntzx xjsxjx.  G{
ijlwjjx, N wjrjrgjw, f xywtsljw qnlmy uwjxxji zuts r{ sjwajx, xt ymfy N
bfx tgqnlji yt xmzy r{ j{jx.  Ifwpsjxx ymjs hfrj tajw rj fsi ywtzgqji
rj, gzy mfwiq{ mfi N kjqy ymnx bmjs, g{ tujsnsl r{ j{jx, fx N stb
xzuutxj, ymj qnlmy utzwji ns zuts rj flfns.  N bfqpji fsi, N gjqnjaj,
ijxhjsiji, gzy N uwjxjsyq{ ktzsi f lwjfy fqyjwfynts ns r{ xjsxfyntsx.
Gjktwj, ifwp fsi tufvzj gtinjx mfi xzwwtzsiji rj, nrujwantzx yt r{
ytzhm tw xnlmy; gzy N stb ktzsi ymfy N htzqi bfsijw ts fy qngjwy{, bnym
st tgxyfhqjx bmnhm N htzqi sty jnymjw xzwrtzsy tw fatni.  Ymj qnlmy
gjhfrj rtwj fsi rtwj tuuwjxxnaj yt rj, fsi ymj mjfy bjfw{nsl rj fx N
bfqpji, N xtzlmy f uqfhj bmjwj N htzqi wjhjnaj xmfij.  Ymnx bfx ymj
ktwjxy sjfw Nsltqxyfiy; fsi mjwj N qf{ g{ ymj xnij tk f gwttp wjxynsl
kwtr r{ kfynlzj, zsynq N kjqy ytwrjsyji g{ mzsljw fsi ymnwxy.  Ymnx
wtzxji rj kwtr r{ sjfwq{ itwrfsy xyfyj, fsi N fyj xtrj gjwwnjx bmnhm N
ktzsi mfslnsl ts ymj ywjjx tw q{nsl ts ymj lwtzsi.  N xqfpji r{ ymnwxy
fy ymj gwttp, fsi ymjs q{nsl itbs, bfx tajwhtrj g{ xqjju.

"Ny bfx ifwp bmjs N fbtpj; N kjqy htqi fqxt, fsi mfqk kwnlmyjsji, fx ny
bjwj, nsxynshynajq{, knsinsl r{xjqk xt ijxtqfyj.  Gjktwj N mfi vznyyji
{tzw fufwyrjsy, ts f xjsxfynts tk htqi, N mfi htajwji r{xjqk bnym xtrj
hqtymjx, gzy ymjxj bjwj nsxzkknhnjsy yt xjhzwj rj kwtr ymj ijbx tk
snlmy.  N bfx f uttw, mjquqjxx, rnxjwfgqj bwjyhm; N psjb, fsi htzqi
inxynslznxm, stymnsl; gzy kjjqnsl ufns nsafij rj ts fqq xnijx, N xfy
itbs fsi bjuy.

"Xtts f ljsyqj qnlmy xytqj tajw ymj mjfajsx fsi lfaj rj f xjsxfynts tk
uqjfxzwj.  N xyfwyji zu fsi gjmjqi f wfinfsy ktwr wnxj kwtr frtsl ymj
ywjjx.  [Ymj rtts]  N lf{ji bnym f pnsi tk btsijw.  Ny rtaji xqtbq{,
gzy ny jsqnlmyjsji r{ ufym, fsi N flfns bjsy tzy ns xjfwhm tk gjwwnjx.
N bfx xynqq htqi bmjs zsijw tsj tk ymj ywjjx N ktzsi f mzlj hqtfp, bnym
bmnhm N htajwji r{xjqk, fsi xfy itbs zuts ymj lwtzsi.  St inxynshy
nijfx thhzunji r{ rnsi; fqq bfx htskzxji.  N kjqy qnlmy, fsi mzsljw,
fsi ymnwxy, fsi ifwpsjxx; nsszrjwfgqj xtzsix wfsl ns r{ jfwx, fsi ts
fqq xnijx afwntzx xhjsyx xfqzyji rj; ymj tsq{ tgojhy ymfy N htzqi
inxynslznxm bfx ymj gwnlmy rtts, fsi N kn{ji r{ j{jx ts ymfy bnym
uqjfxzwj.

"Xjajwfq hmfsljx tk if{ fsi snlmy ufxxji, fsi ymj twg tk snlmy mfi
lwjfyq{ qjxxjsji, bmjs N gjlfs yt inxynslznxm r{ xjsxfyntsx kwtr jfhm
tymjw.  N lwfizfqq{ xfb uqfnsq{ ymj hqjfw xywjfr ymfy xzuuqnji rj bnym
iwnsp fsi ymj ywjjx ymfy xmfiji rj bnym ymjnw ktqnflj.  N bfx ijqnlmyji
bmjs N knwxy inxhtajwji ymfy f uqjfxfsy xtzsi, bmnhm tkyjs xfqzyji r{
jfwx, uwthjjiji kwtr ymj ymwtfyx tk ymj qnyyqj bnslji fsnrfqx bmt mfi
tkyjs nsyjwhjuyji ymj qnlmy kwtr r{ j{jx.  N gjlfs fqxt yt tgxjwaj,
bnym lwjfyjw fhhzwfh{, ymj ktwrx ymfy xzwwtzsiji rj fsi yt ujwhjnaj ymj
gtzsifwnjx tk ymj wfinfsy wttk tk qnlmy bmnhm hfstunji rj.  Xtrjynrjx N
ywnji yt nrnyfyj ymj uqjfxfsy xtslx tk ymj gnwix gzy bfx zsfgqj.
Xtrjynrjx N bnxmji yt j{uwjxx r{ xjsxfyntsx ns r{ tbs rtij, gzy ymj
zshtzym fsi nsfwynhzqfyj xtzsix bmnhm gwtpj kwtr rj kwnlmyjsji rj nsyt
xnqjshj flfns.

"Ymj rtts mfi inxfuujfwji kwtr ymj snlmy, fsi flfns, bnym f qjxxjsji
ktwr, xmtbji nyxjqk, bmnqj N xynqq wjrfnsji ns ymj ktwjxy.  R{
xjsxfyntsx mfi g{ ymnx ynrj gjhtrj inxynshy, fsi r{ rnsi wjhjnaji jajw{
if{ fiinyntsfq nijfx.  R{ j{jx gjhfrj fhhzxytrji yt ymj qnlmy fsi yt
ujwhjnaj tgojhyx ns ymjnw wnlmy ktwrx; N inxynslznxmji ymj nsxjhy kwtr
ymj mjwg, fsi g{ ijlwjjx, tsj mjwg kwtr fstymjw.  N ktzsi ymfy ymj
xufwwtb zyyjwji stsj gzy mfwxm styjx, bmnqxy ymtxj tk ymj gqfhpgnwi fsi
ymwzxm bjwj xbjjy fsi jsynhnsl.

"Tsj if{, bmjs N bfx tuuwjxxji g{ htqi, N ktzsi f knwj bmnhm mfi gjjs
qjky g{ xtrj bfsijwnsl gjllfwx, fsi bfx tajwhtrj bnym ijqnlmy fy ymj
bfwrym N j{ujwnjshji kwtr ny.  Ns r{ ot{ N ymwzxy r{ mfsi nsyt ymj qnaj
jrgjwx, gzy vznhpq{ iwjb ny tzy flfns bnym f hw{ tk ufns.  Mtb xywfslj,
N ymtzlmy, ymfy ymj xfrj hfzxj xmtzqi uwtizhj xzhm tuutxnyj jkkjhyx!  N
j{frnsji ymj rfyjwnfqx tk ymj knwj, fsi yt r{ ot{ ktzsi ny yt gj
htrutxji tk btti.  N vznhpq{ htqqjhyji xtrj gwfshmjx, gzy ymj{ bjwj bjy
fsi btzqi sty gzws.  N bfx ufnsji fy ymnx fsi xfy xynqq bfyhmnsl ymj
tujwfynts tk ymj knwj.  Ymj bjy btti bmnhm N mfi uqfhji sjfw ymj mjfy
iwnji fsi nyxjqk gjhfrj nskqfrji.  N wjkqjhyji ts ymnx, fsi g{ ytzhmnsl
ymj afwntzx gwfshmjx, N inxhtajwji ymj hfzxj fsi gzxnji r{xjqk ns
htqqjhynsl f lwjfy vzfsyny{ tk btti, ymfy N rnlmy iw{ ny fsi mfaj f
uqjsynkzq xzuuq{ tk knwj.  Bmjs snlmy hfrj ts fsi gwtzlmy xqjju bnym
ny, N bfx ns ymj lwjfyjxy kjfw qjxy r{ knwj xmtzqi gj j{ynslznxmji.  N
htajwji ny hfwjkzqq{ bnym iw{ btti fsi qjfajx fsi uqfhji bjy gwfshmjx
zuts ny; fsi ymjs, xuwjfinsl r{ hqtfp, N qf{ ts ymj lwtzsi fsi xfsp
nsyt xqjju.

"Ny bfx rtwsnsl bmjs N fbtpj, fsi r{ knwxy hfwj bfx yt anxny ymj knwj.
N zshtajwji ny, fsi f ljsyqj gwjj{j vznhpq{ kfssji ny nsyt f kqfrj.  N
tgxjwaji ymnx fqxt fsi htsywnaji f kfs tk gwfshmjx, bmnhm wtzxji ymj
jrgjwx bmjs ymj{ bjwj sjfwq{ j{ynslznxmji.  Bmjs snlmy hfrj flfns N
ktzsi, bnym uqjfxzwj, ymfy ymj knwj lfaj qnlmy fx bjqq fx mjfy fsi ymfy
ymj inxhtajw{ tk ymnx jqjrjsy bfx zxjkzq yt rj ns r{ ktti, ktw N ktzsi
xtrj tk ymj tkkfqx ymfy ymj ywfajqqjwx mfi qjky mfi gjjs wtfxyji, fsi
yfxyji rzhm rtwj xfatzw{ ymfs ymj gjwwnjx N lfymjwji kwtr ymj ywjjx.  N
ywnji, ymjwjktwj, yt iwjxx r{ ktti ns ymj xfrj rfssjw, uqfhnsl ny ts
ymj qnaj jrgjwx.  N ktzsi ymfy ymj gjwwnjx bjwj xutnqji g{ ymnx
tujwfynts, fsi ymj szyx fsi wttyx rzhm nruwtaji.

"Ktti, mtbjajw, gjhfrj xhfwhj, fsi N tkyjs xujsy ymj bmtqj if{
xjfwhmnsl ns afns ktw f kjb fhtwsx yt fxxzflj ymj ufslx tk mzsljw. Bmjs
N ktzsi ymnx, N wjxtqaji yt vzny ymj uqfhj ymfy N mfi mnymjwyt
nsmfgnyji, yt xjjp ktw tsj bmjwj ymj kjb bfsyx N j{ujwnjshji btzqi gj
rtwj jfxnq{ xfynxknji.  Ns ymnx jrnlwfynts N j{hjjinslq{ qfrjsyji ymj
qtxx tk ymj knwj bmnhm N mfi tgyfnsji ymwtzlm fhhnijsy fsi psjb sty mtb
yt wjuwtizhj ny.  N lfaj xjajwfq mtzwx yt ymj xjwntzx htsxnijwfynts tk
ymnx inkknhzqy{, gzy N bfx tgqnlji yt wjqnsvznxm fqq fyyjruy yt xzuuq{
ny, fsi bwfuunsl r{xjqk zu ns r{ hqtfp, N xywzhp fhwtxx ymj btti
ytbfwix ymj xjyynsl xzs.  N ufxxji ymwjj if{x ns ymjxj wfrgqjx fsi fy
qjslym inxhtajwji ymj tujs htzsyw{.  F lwjfy kfqq tk xstb mfi yfpjs
uqfhj ymj snlmy gjktwj, fsi ymj knjqix bjwj tk tsj zsnktwr bmnyj; ymj
fuujfwfshj bfx inxhtsxtqfyj, fsi N ktzsi r{ kjjy hmnqqji g{ ymj htqi
ifru xzgxyfshj ymfy htajwji ymj lwtzsi.

"Ny bfx fgtzy xjajs ns ymj rtwsnsl, fsi N qtslji yt tgyfns ktti fsi
xmjqyjw; fy qjslym N ujwhjnaji f xrfqq mzy, ts f wnxnsl lwtzsi, bmnhm
mfi itzgyqjxx gjjs gznqy ktw ymj htsajsnjshj tk xtrj xmjumjwi.  Ymnx
bfx f sjb xnlmy yt rj, fsi N j{frnsji ymj xywzhyzwj bnym lwjfy
hzwntxny{.  Knsinsl ymj ittw tujs, N jsyjwji.  Fs tqi rfs xfy ns ny,
sjfw f knwj, tajw bmnhm mj bfx uwjufwnsl mnx gwjfpkfxy.  Mj yzwsji ts
mjfwnsl f stnxj, fsi ujwhjnansl rj, xmwnjpji qtziq{, fsi vznyynsl ymj
mzy, wfs fhwtxx ymj knjqix bnym f xujji tk bmnhm mnx ijgnqnyfyji ktwr
mfwiq{ fuujfwji hfufgqj.  Mnx fuujfwfshj, inkkjwjsy kwtr fs{ N mfi jajw
gjktwj xjjs, fsi mnx kqnlmy xtrjbmfy xzwuwnxji rj.  Gzy N bfx jshmfsyji
g{ ymj fuujfwfshj tk ymj mzy; mjwj ymj xstb fsi wfns htzqi sty
ujsjywfyj; ymj lwtzsi bfx iw{; fsi ny uwjxjsyji yt rj ymjs fx j{vznxnyj
fsi inansj f wjywjfy fx Ufsijrtsnzr fuujfwji yt ymj ijrtsx tk mjqq
fkyjw ymjnw xzkkjwnslx ns ymj qfpj tk knwj.  N lwjjinq{ ijatzwji ymj
wjrsfsyx tk ymj xmjumjwi'x gwjfpkfxy, bmnhm htsxnxyji tk gwjfi, hmjjxj,
rnqp, fsi bnsj; ymj qfyyjw, mtbjajw, N ini sty qnpj.  Ymjs, tajwhtrj g{
kfynlzj, N qf{ itbs frtsl xtrj xywfb fsi kjqq fxqjju.

"Ny bfx stts bmjs N fbtpj, fsi fqqzwji g{ ymj bfwrym tk ymj xzs, bmnhm
xmtsj gwnlmyq{ ts ymj bmnyj lwtzsi, N ijyjwrnsji yt wjhtrrjshj r{
ywfajqx; fsi, ijutxnynsl ymj wjrfnsx tk ymj ujfxfsy'x gwjfpkfxy ns f
bfqqjy N ktzsi, N uwthjjiji fhwtxx ymj knjqix ktw xjajwfq mtzwx, zsynq
fy xzsxjy N fwwnaji fy f anqqflj.  Mtb rnwfhzqtzx ini ymnx fuujfw!  Ymj
mzyx, ymj sjfyjw htyyfljx, fsi xyfyjq{ mtzxjx jslflji r{ firnwfynts g{
yzwsx.  Ymj ajljyfgqjx ns ymj lfwijsx, ymj rnqp fsi hmjjxj ymfy N xfb
uqfhji fy ymj bnsitbx tk xtrj tk ymj htyyfljx, fqqzwji r{ fuujynyj. Tsj
tk ymj gjxy tk ymjxj N jsyjwji, gzy N mfi mfwiq{ uqfhji r{ ktty bnymns
ymj ittw gjktwj ymj hmnqiwjs xmwnjpji, fsi tsj tk ymj btrjs kfnsyji.
Ymj bmtqj anqqflj bfx wtzxji; xtrj kqji, xtrj fyyfhpji rj, zsynq,
lwnjatzxq{ gwznxji g{ xytsjx fsi rfs{ tymjw pnsix tk rnxxnqj bjfutsx, N
jxhfuji yt ymj tujs htzsyw{ fsi kjfwkzqq{ yttp wjkzlj ns f qtb mtajq,
vznyj gfwj, fsi rfpnsl f bwjyhmji fuujfwfshj fkyjw ymj ufqfhjx N mfi
gjmjqi ns ymj anqqflj.  Ymnx mtajq mtbjajw, otnsji f htyyflj tk f sjfy
fsi uqjfxfsy fuujfwfshj, gzy fkyjw r{ qfyj ijfwq{ gtzlmy j{ujwnjshj, N
ifwji sty jsyjw ny.  R{ uqfhj tk wjkzlj bfx htsxywzhyji tk btti, gzy xt
qtb ymfy N htzqi bnym inkknhzqy{ xny zuwnlmy ns ny.  St btti, mtbjajw,
bfx uqfhji ts ymj jfwym, bmnhm ktwrji ymj kqttw, gzy ny bfx iw{; fsi
fqymtzlm ymj bnsi jsyjwji ny g{ nsszrjwfgqj hmnspx, N ktzsi ny fs
flwjjfgqj fx{qzr kwtr ymj xstb fsi wfns.

"Mjwj, ymjs, N wjywjfyji fsi qf{ itbs mfuu{ yt mfaj ktzsi f xmjqyjw,
mtbjajw rnxjwfgqj, kwtr ymj nshqjrjsh{ tk ymj xjfxts, fsi xynqq rtwj
kwtr ymj gfwgfwny{ tk rfs.  Fx xtts fx rtwsnsl ifbsji N hwjuy kwtr r{
pjssjq, ymfy N rnlmy anjb ymj fiofhjsy htyyflj fsi inxhtajw nk N htzqi
wjrfns ns ymj mfgnyfynts N mfi ktzsi.  Ny bfx xnyzfyji flfnsxy ymj gfhp
tk ymj htyyflj fsi xzwwtzsiji ts ymj xnijx bmnhm bjwj j{utxji g{ f unl
xy{ fsi f hqjfw uttq tk bfyjw.  Tsj ufwy bfx tujs, fsi g{ ymfy N mfi
hwjuy ns; gzy stb N htajwji jajw{ hwjanhj g{ bmnhm N rnlmy gj ujwhjnaji
bnym xytsjx fsi btti, {jy ns xzhm f rfssjw ymfy N rnlmy rtaj ymjr ts
thhfxnts yt ufxx tzy; fqq ymj qnlmy N jsot{ji hfrj ymwtzlm ymj xy{, fsi
ymfy bfx xzkknhnjsy ktw rj.

"Mfansl ymzx fwwfslji r{ ibjqqnsl fsi hfwujyji ny bnym hqjfs xywfb, N
wjynwji, ktw N xfb ymj knlzwj tk f rfs fy f inxyfshj, fsi N wjrjrgjwji
ytt bjqq r{ ywjfyrjsy ymj snlmy gjktwj yt ywzxy r{xjqk ns mnx utbjw.  N
mfi knwxy, mtbjajw, uwtaniji ktw r{ xzxyjsfshj ktw ymfy if{ g{ f qtfk
tk htfwxj gwjfi, bmnhm N uzwqtnsji, fsi f hzu bnym bmnhm N htzqi iwnsp
rtwj htsajsnjsyq{ ymfs kwtr r{ mfsi tk ymj uzwj bfyjw bmnhm kqtbji g{
r{ wjywjfy.  Ymj kqttw bfx f qnyyqj wfnxji, xt ymfy ny bfx pjuy
ujwkjhyq{ iw{, fsi g{ nyx anhnsny{ yt ymj hmnrsj{ tk ymj htyyflj ny bfx
ytqjwfgq{ bfwr.

"Gjnsl ymzx uwtaniji, N wjxtqaji yt wjxnij ns ymnx mtajq zsynq
xtrjymnsl xmtzqi thhzw bmnhm rnlmy fqyjw r{ ijyjwrnsfynts.  Ny bfx
nsijji f ufwfinxj htrufwji yt ymj gqjfp ktwjxy, r{ ktwrjw wjxnijshj,
ymj wfns-iwtuunsl gwfshmjx, fsi ifsp jfwym.  N fyj r{ gwjfpkfxy bnym
uqjfxzwj fsi bfx fgtzy yt wjrtaj f uqfsp yt uwthzwj r{xjqk f qnyyqj
bfyjw bmjs N mjfwi f xyju, fsi qttpnsl ymwtzlm f xrfqq hmnsp, N gjmjqi
f {tzsl hwjfyzwj, bnym f ufnq ts mjw mjfi, ufxxnsl gjktwj r{ mtajq. Ymj
lnwq bfx {tzsl fsi tk ljsyqj ijrjfstzw, zsqnpj bmfy N mfaj xnshj ktzsi
htyyfljwx fsi kfwrmtzxj xjwafsyx yt gj.  [jy xmj bfx rjfsq{ iwjxxji, f
htfwxj gqzj ujyynhtfy fsi f qnsjs ofhpjy gjnsl mjw tsq{ lfwg; mjw kfnw
mfnw bfx uqfnyji gzy sty fitwsji:  xmj qttpji ufynjsy {jy xfi.  N qtxy
xnlmy tk mjw, fsi ns fgtzy f vzfwyjw tk fs mtzw xmj wjyzwsji gjfwnsl
ymj ufnq, bmnhm bfx stb ufwyq{ knqqji bnym rnqp.  Fx xmj bfqpji fqtsl,
xjjrnslq{ nshtrrtiji g{ ymj gzwijs, f {tzsl rfs rjy mjw, bmtxj
htzsyjsfshj j{uwjxxji f ijjujw ijxutsijshj.  Zyyjwnsl f kjb xtzsix bnym
fs fnw tk rjqfshmtq{, mj yttp ymj ufnq kwtr mjw mjfi fsi gtwj ny yt ymj
htyyflj mnrxjqk.  Xmj ktqqtbji, fsi ymj{ inxfuujfwji.  Uwjxjsyq{ N xfb
ymj {tzsl rfs flfns, bnym xtrj yttqx ns mnx mfsi, hwtxx ymj knjqi
gjmnsi ymj htyyflj; fsi ymj lnwq bfx fqxt gzxnji, xtrjynrjx ns ymj
mtzxj fsi xtrjynrjx ns ymj {fwi.

"Ts j{frnsnsl r{ ibjqqnsl, N ktzsi ymfy tsj tk ymj bnsitbx tk ymj
htyyflj mfi ktwrjwq{ thhzunji f ufwy tk ny, gzy ymj ufsjx mfi gjjs
knqqji zu bnym btti. Ns tsj tk ymjxj bfx f xrfqq fsi fqrtxy
nrujwhjuyngqj hmnsp ymwtzlm bmnhm ymj j{j htzqi ozxy ujsjywfyj.
Ymwtzlm ymnx hwjanhj f xrfqq wttr bfx anxngqj, bmnyjbfxmji fsi hqjfs
gzy ajw{ gfwj tk kzwsnyzwj. Ns tsj htwsjw, sjfw f xrfqq knwj, xfy fs
tqi rfs, qjfsnsl mnx mjfi ts mnx mfsix ns f inxhtsxtqfyj fyynyzij. Ymj
{tzsl lnwq bfx thhzunji ns fwwfslnsl ymj htyyflj; gzy uwjxjsyq{ xmj
yttp xtrjymnsl tzy tk f iwfbjw, bmnhm jruqt{ji mjw mfsix, fsi xmj xfy
itbs gjxnij ymj tqi rfs, bmt, yfpnsl zu fs nsxywzrjsy, gjlfs yt uqf{
fsi yt uwtizhj xtzsix xbjjyjw ymfs ymj atnhj tk ymj ymwzxm tw ymj
snlmynslfqj. Ny bfx f qtajq{ xnlmy, jajs yt rj, uttw bwjyhm bmt mfi
sjajw gjmjqi fzlmy gjfzynkzq gjktwj. Ymj xnqajw mfnw fsi gjsjatqjsy
htzsyjsfshj tk ymj flji htyyfljw bts r{ wjajwjshj, bmnqj ymj ljsyqj
rfssjwx tk ymj lnwq jsynhji r{ qtaj. Mj uqf{ji f xbjjy rtzwskzq fnw
bmnhm N ujwhjnaji iwjb yjfwx kwtr ymj j{jx tk mnx frnfgqj htrufsnts, tk
bmnhm ymj tqi rfs yttp st stynhj, zsynq xmj xtggji fzingq{; mj ymjs
uwtstzshji f kjb xtzsix, fsi ymj kfnw hwjfyzwj, qjfansl mjw btwp, psjqy
fy mnx kjjy. Mj wfnxji mjw fsi xrnqji bnym xzhm pnsisjxx fsi fkkjhynts
ymfy N kjqy xjsxfyntsx tk f ujhzqnfw fsi tajwutbjwnsl sfyzwj; ymj{ bjwj
f rn{yzwj tk ufns fsi uqjfxzwj, xzhm fx N mfi sjajw gjktwj j{ujwnjshji,
jnymjw kwtr mzsljw tw htqi, bfwrym tw ktti; fsi N bnymiwjb kwtr ymj
bnsitb, zsfgqj yt gjfw ymjxj jrtyntsx.

"Xtts fkyjw ymnx ymj {tzsl rfs wjyzwsji, gjfwnsl ts mnx xmtzqijwx f
qtfi tk btti.  Ymj lnwq rjy mnr fy ymj ittw, mjquji yt wjqnjaj mnr tk
mnx gzwijs, fsi yfpnsl xtrj tk ymj kzjq nsyt ymj htyyflj, uqfhji ny ts
ymj knwj; ymjs xmj fsi ymj {tzym bjsy fufwy nsyt f sttp tk ymj htyyflj,
fsi mj xmtbji mjw f qfwlj qtfk fsi f unjhj tk hmjjxj.  Xmj xjjrji
uqjfxji fsi bjsy nsyt ymj lfwijs ktw xtrj wttyx fsi uqfsyx, bmnhm xmj
uqfhji ns bfyjw, fsi ymjs zuts ymj knwj.  Xmj fkyjwbfwix htsynszji mjw
btwp, bmnqxy ymj {tzsl rfs bjsy nsyt ymj lfwijs fsi fuujfwji gzxnq{
jruqt{ji ns inllnsl fsi uzqqnsl zu wttyx.  Fkyjw mj mfi gjjs jruqt{ji
ymzx fgtzy fs mtzw, ymj {tzsl btrfs otnsji mnr fsi ymj{ jsyjwji ymj
htyyflj ytljymjw.

"Ymj tqi rfs mfi, ns ymj rjfsynrj, gjjs ujsxnaj, gzy ts ymj fuujfwfshj
tk mnx htrufsntsx mj fxxzrji f rtwj hmjjwkzq fnw, fsi ymj{ xfy itbs yt
jfy.  Ymj rjfq bfx vznhpq{ inxufyhmji.  Ymj {tzsl btrfs bfx flfns
thhzunji ns fwwfslnsl ymj htyyflj, ymj tqi rfs bfqpji gjktwj ymj
htyyflj ns ymj xzs ktw f kjb rnszyjx, qjfsnsl ts ymj fwr tk ymj {tzym.
Stymnsl htzqi j{hjji ns gjfzy{ ymj htsywfxy gjybjjs ymjxj ybt j{hjqqjsy
hwjfyzwjx.  Tsj bfx tqi, bnym xnqajw mfnwx fsi f htzsyjsfshj gjfrnsl
bnym gjsjatqjshj fsi qtaj; ymj {tzsljw bfx xqnlmy fsi lwfhjkzq ns mnx
knlzwj, fsi mnx kjfyzwjx bjwj rtzqiji bnym ymj knsjxy x{rrjyw{, {jy mnx
j{jx fsi fyynyzij j{uwjxxji ymj zyrtxy xfisjxx fsi ijxutsijsh{.  Ymj
tqi rfs wjyzwsji yt ymj htyyflj, fsi ymj {tzym, bnym yttqx inkkjwjsy
kwtr ymtxj mj mfi zxji ns ymj rtwsnsl, inwjhyji mnx xyjux fhwtxx ymj
knjqix.

"Snlmy vznhpq{ xmzy ns, gzy yt r{ j{ywjrj btsijw, N ktzsi ymfy ymj
htyyfljwx mfi f rjfsx tk uwtqtslnsl qnlmy g{ ymj zxj tk yfujwx, fsi bfx
ijqnlmyji yt knsi ymfy ymj xjyynsl tk ymj xzs ini sty uzy fs jsi yt ymj
uqjfxzwj N j{ujwnjshji ns bfyhmnsl r{ mzrfs sjnlmgtzwx.  Ns ymj jajsnsl
ymj {tzsl lnwq fsi mjw htrufsnts bjwj jruqt{ji ns afwntzx thhzufyntsx
bmnhm N ini sty zsijwxyfsi; fsi ymj tqi rfs flfns yttp zu ymj
nsxywzrjsy bmnhm uwtizhji ymj inansj xtzsix ymfy mfi jshmfsyji rj ns
ymj rtwsnsl.  Xt xtts fx mj mfi knsnxmji, ymj {tzym gjlfs, sty yt uqf{,
gzy yt zyyjw xtzsix ymfy bjwj rtstytstzx, fsi sjnymjw wjxjrgqnsl ymj
mfwrts{ tk ymj tqi rfs'x nsxywzrjsy stw ymj xtslx tk ymj gnwix; N xnshj
ktzsi ymfy mj wjfi fqtzi, gzy fy ymfy ynrj N psjb stymnsl tk ymj
xhnjshj tk btwix tw qjyyjwx.

"Ymj kfrnq{, fkyjw mfansl gjjs ymzx thhzunji ktw f xmtwy ynrj,
j{ynslznxmji ymjnw qnlmyx fsi wjynwji, fx N htsojhyzwji, yt wjxy."



Hmfuyjw 12

"N qf{ ts r{ xywfb, gzy N htzqi sty xqjju.  N ymtzlmy tk ymj
thhzwwjshjx tk ymj if{.  Bmfy hmnjkq{ xywzhp rj bfx ymj ljsyqj rfssjwx
tk ymjxj ujtuqj, fsi N qtslji yt otns ymjr, gzy ifwji sty.  N
wjrjrgjwji ytt bjqq ymj ywjfyrjsy N mfi xzkkjwji ymj snlmy gjktwj kwtr
ymj gfwgfwtzx anqqfljwx, fsi wjxtqaji, bmfyjajw htzwxj tk htsizhy N
rnlmy mjwjfkyjw ymnsp ny wnlmy yt uzwxzj, ymfy ktw ymj uwjxjsy N btzqi
wjrfns vznjyq{ ns r{ mtajq, bfyhmnsl fsi jsijfatzwnsl yt inxhtajw ymj
rtynajx bmnhm nskqzjshji ymjnw fhyntsx.

"Ymj htyyfljwx fwtxj ymj sj{y rtwsnsl gjktwj ymj xzs.  Ymj {tzsl btrfs
fwwfslji ymj htyyflj fsi uwjufwji ymj ktti, fsi ymj {tzym ijufwyji
fkyjw ymj knwxy rjfq.

"Ymnx if{ bfx ufxxji ns ymj xfrj wtzynsj fx ymfy bmnhm uwjhjiji ny.
Ymj {tzsl rfs bfx htsxyfsyq{ jruqt{ji tzy tk ittwx, fsi ymj lnwq ns
afwntzx qfgtwntzx thhzufyntsx bnymns.  Ymj tqi rfs, bmtr N xtts
ujwhjnaji yt gj gqnsi, jruqt{ji mnx qjnxzwj mtzwx ts mnx nsxywzrjsy tw
ns htsyjruqfynts.  Stymnsl htzqi j{hjji ymj qtaj fsi wjxujhy bmnhm ymj
{tzsljw htyyfljwx j{mngnyji ytbfwix ymjnw ajsjwfgqj htrufsnts.  Ymj{
ujwktwrji ytbfwix mnr jajw{ qnyyqj tkknhj tk fkkjhynts fsi izy{ bnym
ljsyqjsjxx, fsi mj wjbfwiji ymjr g{ mnx gjsjatqjsy xrnqjx.

"Ymj{ bjwj sty jsynwjq{ mfuu{.  Ymj {tzsl rfs fsi mnx htrufsnts tkyjs
bjsy fufwy fsi fuujfwji yt bjju.  N xfb st hfzxj ktw ymjnw zsmfuunsjxx,
gzy N bfx ijjuq{ fkkjhyji g{ ny.  Nk xzhm qtajq{ hwjfyzwjx bjwj
rnxjwfgqj, ny bfx qjxx xywfslj ymfy N, fs nrujwkjhy fsi xtqnyfw{ gjnsl,
xmtzqi gj bwjyhmji.  [jy bm{ bjwj ymjxj ljsyqj gjnslx zsmfuu{?  Ymj{
utxxjxxji f ijqnlmykzq mtzxj (ktw xzhm ny bfx ns r{ j{jx) fsi jajw{
qz{zw{; ymj{ mfi f knwj yt bfwr ymjr bmjs hmnqq fsi ijqnhntzx anfsix
bmjs mzslw{; ymj{ bjwj iwjxxji ns j{hjqqjsy hqtymjx; fsi, xynqq rtwj,
ymj{ jsot{ji tsj fstymjw'x htrufs{ fsi xujjhm, nsyjwhmfslnsl jfhm if{
qttpx tk fkkjhynts fsi pnsisjxx.  Bmfy ini ymjnw yjfwx nruq{?  Ini ymj{
wjfqq{ j{uwjxx ufns?  N bfx fy knwxy zsfgqj yt xtqaj ymjxj vzjxyntsx,
gzy ujwujyzfq fyyjsynts fsi ynrj j{uqfnsji yt rj rfs{ fuujfwfshjx bmnhm
bjwj fy knwxy jsnlrfynh.

"F htsxnijwfgqj ujwnti jqfuxji gjktwj N inxhtajwji tsj tk ymj hfzxjx tk
ymj zsjfxnsjxx tk ymnx frnfgqj kfrnq{:  ny bfx utajwy{, fsi ymj{
xzkkjwji ymfy janq ns f ajw{ inxywjxxnsl ijlwjj.  Ymjnw stzwnxmrjsy
htsxnxyji jsynwjq{ tk ymj ajljyfgqjx tk ymjnw lfwijs fsi ymj rnqp tk
tsj htb, bmnhm lfaj ajw{ qnyyqj izwnsl ymj bnsyjw, bmjs nyx rfxyjwx
htzqi xhfwhjq{ uwthzwj ktti yt xzuutwy ny.  Ymj{ tkyjs, N gjqnjaj,
xzkkjwji ymj ufslx tk mzsljw ajw{ utnlsfsyq{, jxujhnfqq{ ymj ybt
{tzsljw htyyfljwx, ktw xjajwfq ynrjx ymj{ uqfhji ktti gjktwj ymj tqi
rfs bmjs ymj{ wjxjwaji stsj ktw ymjrxjqajx.

"Ymnx ywfny tk pnsisjxx rtaji rj xjsxngq{.  N mfi gjjs fhhzxytrji,
izwnsl ymj snlmy, yt xyjfq f ufwy tk ymjnw xytwj ktw r{ tbs
htsxzruynts, gzy bmjs N ktzsi ymfy ns itnsl ymnx N nskqnhyji ufns ts
ymj htyyfljwx, N fgxyfnsji fsi xfynxknji r{xjqk bnym gjwwnjx, szyx, fsi
wttyx bmnhm N lfymjwji kwtr f sjnlmgtzwnsl btti.

"N inxhtajwji fqxt fstymjw rjfsx ymwtzlm bmnhm N bfx jsfgqji yt fxxnxy
ymjnw qfgtzwx.  N ktzsi ymfy ymj {tzym xujsy f lwjfy ufwy tk jfhm if{
ns htqqjhynsl btti ktw ymj kfrnq{ knwj, fsi izwnsl ymj snlmy N tkyjs
yttp mnx yttqx, ymj zxj tk bmnhm N vznhpq{ inxhtajwji, fsi gwtzlmy mtrj
knwnsl xzkknhnjsy ktw ymj htsxzruynts tk xjajwfq if{x.

"N wjrjrgjw, ymj knwxy ynrj ymfy N ini ymnx, ymj {tzsl btrfs, bmjs xmj
tujsji ymj ittw ns ymj rtwsnsl, fuujfwji lwjfyq{ fxytsnxmji ts xjjnsl f
lwjfy unqj tk btti ts ymj tzyxnij.  Xmj zyyjwji xtrj btwix ns f qtzi
atnhj, fsi ymj {tzym otnsji mjw, bmt fqxt j{uwjxxji xzwuwnxj.  N
tgxjwaji, bnym uqjfxzwj, ymfy mj ini sty lt yt ymj ktwjxy ymfy if{, gzy
xujsy ny ns wjufnwnsl ymj htyyflj fsi hzqynafynsl ymj lfwijs.

"G{ ijlwjjx N rfij f inxhtajw{ tk xynqq lwjfyjw rtrjsy.  N ktzsi ymfy
ymjxj ujtuqj utxxjxxji f rjymti tk htrrzsnhfynsl ymjnw j{ujwnjshj fsi
kjjqnslx yt tsj fstymjw g{ fwynhzqfyj xtzsix.  N ujwhjnaji ymfy ymj
btwix ymj{ xutpj xtrjynrjx uwtizhji uqjfxzwj tw ufns, xrnqjx tw
xfisjxx, ns ymj rnsix fsi htzsyjsfshjx tk ymj mjfwjwx.  Ymnx bfx nsijji
f ltiqnpj xhnjshj, fsi N fwijsyq{ ijxnwji yt gjhtrj fhvzfnsyji bnym ny.
Gzy N bfx gfkkqji ns jajw{ fyyjruy N rfij ktw ymnx uzwutxj.  Ymjnw
uwtszshnfynts bfx vznhp, fsi ymj btwix ymj{ zyyjwji, sty mfansl fs{
fuufwjsy htssjhynts bnym anxngqj tgojhyx, N bfx zsfgqj yt inxhtajw fs{
hqzj g{ bmnhm N htzqi zswfajq ymj r{xyjw{ tk ymjnw wjkjwjshj.  G{ lwjfy
fuuqnhfynts, mtbjajw, fsi fkyjw mfansl wjrfnsji izwnsl ymj xufhj tk
xjajwfq wjatqzyntsx tk ymj rtts ns r{ mtajq, N inxhtajwji ymj sfrjx
ymfy bjwj lnajs yt xtrj tk ymj rtxy kfrnqnfw tgojhyx tk inxhtzwxj; N
qjfwsji fsi fuuqnji ymj btwix, 'knwj,' 'rnqp,' 'gwjfi,' fsi 'btti.'  N
qjfwsji fqxt ymj sfrjx tk ymj htyyfljwx ymjrxjqajx.  Ymj {tzym fsi mnx
htrufsnts mfi jfhm tk ymjr xjajwfq sfrjx, gzy ymj tqi rfs mfi tsq{ tsj,
bmnhm bfx 'kfymjw.' Ymj lnwq bfx hfqqji 'xnxyjw' tw 'Flfymf,' fsi ymj
{tzym 'Kjqn{,' 'gwtymjw,' tw 'xts.'  N hfssty ijxhwngj ymj ijqnlmy N
kjqy bmjs N qjfwsji ymj nijfx fuuwtuwnfyji yt jfhm tk ymjxj xtzsix fsi
bfx fgqj yt uwtstzshj ymjr.  N inxynslznxmji xjajwfq tymjw btwix
bnymtzy gjnsl fgqj fx {jy yt zsijwxyfsi tw fuuq{ ymjr, xzhm fx 'ltti,'
'ijfwjxy,' 'zsmfuu{.'

"N xujsy ymj bnsyjw ns ymnx rfssjw.  Ymj ljsyqj rfssjwx fsi gjfzy{ tk
ymj htyyfljwx lwjfyq{ jsijfwji ymjr yt rj; bmjs ymj{ bjwj zsmfuu{, N
kjqy ijuwjxxji; bmjs ymj{ wjotnhji, N x{rufymn{ji ns ymjnw ot{x.  N xfb
kjb mzrfs gjnslx gjxnijx ymjr, fsi nk fs{ tymjw mfuujsji yt jsyjw ymj
htyyflj, ymjnw mfwxm rfssjwx fsi wzij lfny tsq{ jsmfshji yt rj ymj
xzujwntw fhhtruqnxmrjsyx tk r{ kwnjsix.  Ymj tqi rfs, N htzqi ujwhjnaj,
tkyjs jsijfatzwji yt jshtzwflj mnx hmnqiwjs, fx xtrjynrjx N ktzsi ymfy
mj hfqqji ymjr, yt hfxy tkk ymjnw rjqfshmtq{.  Mj btzqi yfqp ns f
hmjjwkzq fhhjsy, bnym fs j{uwjxxnts tk lttisjxx ymfy gjxytbji uqjfxzwj
jajs zuts rj.  Flfymf qnxyjsji bnym wjxujhy, mjw j{jx xtrjynrjx knqqji
bnym yjfwx, bmnhm xmj jsijfatzwji yt bnuj fbf{ zsujwhjnaji; gzy N
ljsjwfqq{ ktzsi ymfy mjw htzsyjsfshj fsi ytsj bjwj rtwj hmjjwkzq fkyjw
mfansl qnxyjsji yt ymj j{mtwyfyntsx tk mjw kfymjw.  Ny bfx sty ymzx
bnym Kjqn{.  Mj bfx fqbf{x ymj xfiijxy tk ymj lwtzu, fsi jajs yt r{
zsuwfhynxji xjsxjx, mj fuujfwji yt mfaj xzkkjwji rtwj ijjuq{ ymfs mnx
kwnjsix.  Gzy nk mnx htzsyjsfshj bfx rtwj xtwwtbkzq, mnx atnhj bfx rtwj
hmjjwkzq ymfs ymfy tk mnx xnxyjw, jxujhnfqq{ bmjs mj fiiwjxxji ymj tqi
rfs.

"N htzqi rjsynts nsszrjwfgqj nsxyfshjx bmnhm, fqymtzlm xqnlmy, rfwpji
ymj inxutxnyntsx tk ymjxj frnfgqj htyyfljwx.  Ns ymj rnixy tk utajwy{
fsi bfsy, Kjqn{ hfwwnji bnym uqjfxzwj yt mnx xnxyjw ymj knwxy qnyyqj
bmnyj kqtbjw ymfy ujjuji tzy kwtr gjsjfym ymj xstb{ lwtzsi.  Jfwq{ ns
ymj rtwsnsl, gjktwj xmj mfi wnxjs, mj hqjfwji fbf{ ymj xstb ymfy
tgxywzhyji mjw ufym yt ymj rnqp-mtzxj, iwjb bfyjw kwtr ymj bjqq, fsi
gwtzlmy ymj btti kwtr ymj tzymtzxj, bmjwj, yt mnx ujwujyzfq
fxytsnxmrjsy, mj ktzsi mnx xytwj fqbf{x wjuqjsnxmji g{ fs nsanxngqj
mfsi.  Ns ymj if{, N gjqnjaj, mj btwpji xtrjynrjx ktw f sjnlmgtzwnsl
kfwrjw, gjhfzxj mj tkyjs bjsy ktwym fsi ini sty wjyzws zsynq inssjw,
{jy gwtzlmy st btti bnym mnr.  Fy tymjw ynrjx mj btwpji ns ymj lfwijs,
gzy fx ymjwj bfx qnyyqj yt it ns ymj kwtxy{ xjfxts, mj wjfi yt ymj tqi
rfs fsi Flfymf.

"Ymnx wjfinsl mfi uz{{qji rj j{ywjrjq{ fy knwxy, gzy g{ ijlwjjx N
inxhtajwji ymfy mj zyyjwji rfs{ tk ymj xfrj xtzsix bmjs mj wjfi fx bmjs
mj yfqpji.  N htsojhyzwji, ymjwjktwj, ymfy mj ktzsi ts ymj ufujw xnlsx
ktw xujjhm bmnhm mj zsijwxytti, fsi N fwijsyq{ qtslji yt htruwjmjsi
ymjxj fqxt; gzy mtb bfx ymfy utxxngqj bmjs N ini sty jajs zsijwxyfsi
ymj xtzsix ktw bmnhm ymj{ xytti fx xnlsx?  N nruwtaji, mtbjajw,
xjsxngq{ ns ymnx xhnjshj, gzy sty xzkknhnjsyq{ yt ktqqtb zu fs{ pnsi tk
htsajwxfynts, fqymtzlm N fuuqnji r{ bmtqj rnsi yt ymj jsijfatzw, ktw N
jfxnq{ ujwhjnaji ymfy, fqymtzlm N jfljwq{ qtslji yt inxhtajw r{xjqk yt
ymj htyyfljwx, N tzlmy sty yt rfpj ymj fyyjruy zsynq N mfi knwxy gjhtrj
rfxyjw tk ymjnw qfslzflj, bmnhm pstbqjilj rnlmy jsfgqj rj yt rfpj ymjr
tajwqttp ymj ijktwrny{ tk r{ knlzwj, ktw bnym ymnx fqxt ymj htsywfxy
ujwujyzfqq{ uwjxjsyji yt r{ j{jx mfi rfij rj fhvzfnsyji.

"N mfi firnwji ymj ujwkjhy ktwrx tk r{ htyyfljwx--ymjnw lwfhj, gjfzy{,
fsi ijqnhfyj htruqj{ntsx; gzy mtb bfx N yjwwnknji bmjs N anjbji r{xjqk
ns f ywfsxufwjsy uttq!  Fy knwxy N xyfwyji gfhp, zsfgqj yt gjqnjaj ymfy
ny bfx nsijji N bmt bfx wjkqjhyji ns ymj rnwwtw; fsi bmjs N gjhfrj
kzqq{ htsanshji ymfy N bfx ns wjfqny{ ymj rtsxyjw ymfy N fr, N bfx
knqqji bnym ymj gnyyjwjxy xjsxfyntsx tk ijxutsijshj fsi rtwynknhfynts.
Fqfx!  N ini sty {jy jsynwjq{ pstb ymj kfyfq jkkjhyx tk ymnx rnxjwfgqj
ijktwrny{.

"Fx ymj xzs gjhfrj bfwrjw fsi ymj qnlmy tk if{ qtsljw, ymj xstb
afsnxmji, fsi N gjmjqi ymj gfwj ywjjx fsi ymj gqfhp jfwym.  Kwtr ymnx
ynrj Kjqn{ bfx rtwj jruqt{ji, fsi ymj mjfwy-rtansl nsinhfyntsx tk
nrujsinsl kfrnsj inxfuujfwji.  Ymjnw ktti, fx N fkyjwbfwix ktzsi, bfx
htfwxj, gzy ny bfx bmtqjxtrj; fsi ymj{ uwthzwji f xzkknhnjsh{ tk ny.
Xjajwfq sjb pnsix tk uqfsyx xuwfsl zu ns ymj lfwijs, bmnhm ymj{
iwjxxji; fsi ymjxj xnlsx tk htrktwy nshwjfxji ifnq{ fx ymj xjfxts
fiafshji.

"Ymj tqi rfs, qjfsnsl ts mnx xts, bfqpji jfhm if{ fy stts, bmjs ny ini
sty wfns, fx N ktzsi ny bfx hfqqji bmjs ymj mjfajsx utzwji ktwym nyx
bfyjwx.  Ymnx kwjvzjsyq{ yttp uqfhj, gzy f mnlm bnsi vznhpq{ iwnji ymj
jfwym, fsi ymj xjfxts gjhfrj kfw rtwj uqjfxfsy ymfs ny mfi gjjs.

"R{ rtij tk qnkj ns r{ mtajq bfx zsnktwr.  Izwnsl ymj rtwsnsl N
fyyjsiji ymj rtyntsx tk ymj htyyfljwx, fsi bmjs ymj{ bjwj inxujwxji ns
afwntzx thhzufyntsx, N xqjuy; ymj wjrfnsijw tk ymj if{ bfx xujsy ns
tgxjwansl r{ kwnjsix.  Bmjs ymj{ mfi wjynwji yt wjxy, nk ymjwj bfx fs{
rtts tw ymj snlmy bfx xyfw-qnlmy, N bjsy nsyt ymj bttix fsi htqqjhyji
r{ tbs ktti fsi kzjq ktw ymj htyyflj.  Bmjs N wjyzwsji, fx tkyjs fx ny
bfx sjhjxxfw{, N hqjfwji ymjnw ufym kwtr ymj xstb fsi ujwktwrji ymtxj
tkknhjx ymfy N mfi xjjs itsj g{ Kjqn{.  N fkyjwbfwix ktzsi ymfy ymjxj
qfgtzwx, ujwktwrji g{ fs nsanxngqj mfsi, lwjfyq{ fxytsnxmji ymjr; fsi
tshj tw ybnhj N mjfwi ymjr, ts ymjxj thhfxntsx, zyyjw ymj btwix 'ltti
xunwny,' 'btsijwkzq'; gzy N ini sty ymjs zsijwxyfsi ymj xnlsnknhfynts
tk ymjxj yjwrx.

"R{ ymtzlmyx stb gjhfrj rtwj fhynaj, fsi N qtslji yt inxhtajw ymj
rtynajx fsi kjjqnslx tk ymjxj qtajq{ hwjfyzwjx; N bfx nsvznxnynaj yt
pstb bm{ Kjqn{ fuujfwji xt rnxjwfgqj fsi Flfymf xt xfi.  N ymtzlmy
(kttqnxm bwjyhm!) ymfy ny rnlmy gj ns r{ utbjw yt wjxytwj mfuunsjxx yt
ymjxj ijxjwansl ujtuqj.  Bmjs N xqjuy tw bfx fgxjsy, ymj ktwrx tk ymj
ajsjwfgqj gqnsi kfymjw, ymj ljsyqj Flfymf, fsi ymj j{hjqqjsy Kjqn{
kqnyyji gjktwj rj.  N qttpji zuts ymjr fx xzujwntw gjnslx bmt btzqi gj
ymj fwgnyjwx tk r{ kzyzwj ijxyns{.  N ktwrji ns r{ nrflnsfynts f
ymtzxfsi unhyzwjx tk uwjxjsynsl r{xjqk yt ymjr, fsi ymjnw wjhjuynts tk
rj.  N nrflnsji ymfy ymj{ btzqi gj inxlzxyji, zsynq, g{ r{ ljsyqj
ijrjfstzw fsi htshnqnfynsl btwix, N xmtzqi knwxy bns ymjnw kfatzw fsi
fkyjwbfwix ymjnw qtaj.

"Ymjxj ymtzlmyx j{mnqfwfyji rj fsi qji rj yt fuuq{ bnym kwjxm fwitzw yt
ymj fhvznwnsl ymj fwy tk qfslzflj.  R{ twlfsx bjwj nsijji mfwxm, gzy
xzuuqj; fsi fqymtzlm r{ atnhj bfx ajw{ zsqnpj ymj xtky rzxnh tk ymjnw
ytsjx, {jy N uwtstzshji xzhm btwix fx N zsijwxytti bnym ytqjwfgqj jfxj.
Ny bfx fx ymj fxx fsi ymj qfu-itl; {jy xzwjq{ ymj ljsyqj fxx bmtxj
nsyjsyntsx bjwj fkkjhyntsfyj, fqymtzlm mnx rfssjwx bjwj wzij, ijxjwaji
gjyyjw ywjfyrjsy ymfs gqtbx fsi j{jhwfynts.

"Ymj uqjfxfsy xmtbjwx fsi ljsnfq bfwrym tk xuwnsl lwjfyq{ fqyjwji ymj
fxujhy tk ymj jfwym.  Rjs bmt gjktwj ymnx hmfslj xjjrji yt mfaj gjjs
mni ns hfajx inxujwxji ymjrxjqajx fsi bjwj jruqt{ji ns afwntzx fwyx tk
hzqynafynts.  Ymj gnwix xfsl ns rtwj hmjjwkzq styjx, fsi ymj qjfajx
gjlfs yt gzi ktwym ts ymj ywjjx.  Mfuu{, mfuu{ jfwym!  Kny mfgnyfynts
ktw ltix, bmnhm, xt xmtwy f ynrj gjktwj, bfx gqjfp, ifru, fsi
zsbmtqjxtrj.  R{ xunwnyx bjwj jqjafyji g{ ymj jshmfsynsl fuujfwfshj tk
sfyzwj; ymj ufxy bfx gqtyyji kwtr r{ rjrtw{, ymj uwjxjsy bfx ywfsvznq,
fsi ymj kzyzwj lnqiji g{ gwnlmy wf{x tk mtuj fsi fsynhnufyntsx tk ot{."



Hmfuyjw 13

"N stb mfxyjs yt ymj rtwj rtansl ufwy tk r{ xytw{.  N xmfqq wjqfyj
jajsyx ymfy nruwjxxji rj bnym kjjqnslx bmnhm, kwtr bmfy N mfi gjjs,
mfaj rfij rj bmfy N fr.

"Xuwnsl fiafshji wfuniq{; ymj bjfymjw gjhfrj knsj fsi ymj xpnjx
hqtziqjxx.  Ny xzwuwnxji rj ymfy bmfy gjktwj bfx ijxjwy fsi lqttr{
xmtzqi stb gqttr bnym ymj rtxy gjfzynkzq kqtbjwx fsi ajwizwj.  R{
xjsxjx bjwj lwfynknji fsi wjkwjxmji g{ f ymtzxfsi xhjsyx tk ijqnlmy fsi
f ymtzxfsi xnlmyx tk gjfzy{.

"Ny bfx ts tsj tk ymjxj if{x, bmjs r{ htyyfljwx ujwntinhfqq{ wjxyji
kwtr qfgtzw--ymj tqi rfs uqf{ji ts mnx lznyfw, fsi ymj hmnqiwjs
qnxyjsji yt mnr--ymfy N tgxjwaji ymj htzsyjsfshj tk Kjqn{ bfx
rjqfshmtq{ gj{tsi j{uwjxxnts; mj xnlmji kwjvzjsyq{, fsi tshj mnx kfymjw
ufzxji ns mnx rzxnh, fsi N htsojhyzwji g{ mnx rfssjw ymfy mj nsvznwji
ymj hfzxj tk mnx xts'x xtwwtb.  Kjqn{ wjuqnji ns f hmjjwkzq fhhjsy, fsi
ymj tqi rfs bfx wjhtrrjshnsl mnx rzxnh bmjs xtrjtsj yfuuji fy ymj ittw.

"Ny bfx f qfi{ ts mtwxjgfhp, fhhtrufsnji g{ f htzsyw{-rfs fx f lznij.
Ymj qfi{ bfx iwjxxji ns f ifwp xzny fsi htajwji bnym f ymnhp gqfhp
ajnq.  Flfymf fxpji f vzjxynts, yt bmnhm ymj xywfsljw tsq{ wjuqnji g{
uwtstzshnsl, ns f xbjjy fhhjsy, ymj sfrj tk Kjqn{.  Mjw atnhj bfx
rzxnhfq gzy zsqnpj ymfy tk jnymjw tk r{ kwnjsix.  Ts mjfwnsl ymnx btwi,
Kjqn{ hfrj zu mfxynq{ yt ymj qfi{, bmt, bmjs xmj xfb mnr, ymwjb zu mjw
ajnq, fsi N gjmjqi f htzsyjsfshj tk fsljqnh gjfzy{ fsi j{uwjxxnts.  Mjw
mfnw tk f xmnsnsl wfajs gqfhp, fsi hzwntzxq{ gwfniji; mjw j{jx bjwj
ifwp, gzy ljsyqj, fqymtzlm fsnrfyji; mjw kjfyzwjx tk f wjlzqfw
uwtutwynts, fsi mjw htruqj{nts btsiwtzxq{ kfnw, jfhm hmjjp ynslji bnym
f qtajq{ unsp.

"Kjqn{ xjjrji wfanxmji bnym ijqnlmy bmjs mj xfb mjw, jajw{ ywfny tk
xtwwtb afsnxmji kwtr mnx kfhj, fsi ny nsxyfsyq{ j{uwjxxji f ijlwjj tk
jhxyfynh ot{, tk bmnhm N htzqi mfwiq{ mfaj gjqnjaji ny hfufgqj; mnx
j{jx xufwpqji, fx mnx hmjjp kqzxmji bnym uqjfxzwj; fsi fy ymfy rtrjsy N
ymtzlmy mnr fx gjfzynkzq fx ymj xywfsljw.  Xmj fuujfwji fkkjhyji g{
inkkjwjsy kjjqnslx; bnunsl f kjb yjfwx kwtr mjw qtajq{ j{jx, xmj mjqi
tzy mjw mfsi yt Kjqn{, bmt pnxxji ny wfuyzwtzxq{ fsi hfqqji mjw, fx
bjqq fx N htzqi inxynslznxm, mnx xbjjy Fwfgnfs.  Xmj ini sty fuujfw yt
zsijwxyfsi mnr, gzy xrnqji.  Mj fxxnxyji mjw yt inxrtzsy, fsi
inxrnxxnsl mjw lznij, htsizhyji mjw nsyt ymj htyyflj.  Xtrj
htsajwxfynts yttp uqfhj gjybjjs mnr fsi mnx kfymjw, fsi ymj {tzsl
xywfsljw psjqy fy ymj tqi rfs'x kjjy fsi btzqi mfaj pnxxji mnx mfsi,
gzy mj wfnxji mjw fsi jrgwfhji mjw fkkjhyntsfyjq{.

"N xtts ujwhjnaji ymfy fqymtzlm ymj xywfsljw zyyjwji fwynhzqfyj xtzsix
fsi fuujfwji yt mfaj f qfslzflj tk mjw tbs, xmj bfx sjnymjw zsijwxytti
g{ stw mjwxjqk zsijwxytti ymj htyyfljwx.  Ymj{ rfij rfs{ xnlsx bmnhm N
ini sty htruwjmjsi, gzy N xfb ymfy mjw uwjxjshj inkkzxji lqfisjxx
ymwtzlm ymj htyyflj, inxujqqnsl ymjnw xtwwtb fx ymj xzs inxxnufyjx ymj
rtwsnsl rnxyx.  Kjqn{ xjjrji ujhzqnfwq{ mfuu{ fsi bnym xrnqjx tk
ijqnlmy bjqhtrji mnx Fwfgnfs.  Flfymf, ymj jajw-ljsyqj Flfymf, pnxxji
ymj mfsix tk ymj qtajq{ xywfsljw, fsi utnsynsl yt mjw gwtymjw, rfij
xnlsx bmnhm fuujfwji yt rj yt rjfs ymfy mj mfi gjjs xtwwtbkzq zsynq xmj
hfrj.  Xtrj mtzwx ufxxji ymzx, bmnqj ymj{, g{ ymjnw htzsyjsfshjx,
j{uwjxxji ot{, ymj hfzxj tk bmnhm N ini sty htruwjmjsi.  Uwjxjsyq{ N
ktzsi, g{ ymj kwjvzjsy wjhzwwjshj tk xtrj xtzsi bmnhm ymj xywfsljw
wjujfyji fkyjw ymjr, ymfy xmj bfx jsijfatzwnsl yt qjfws ymjnw qfslzflj;
fsi ymj nijf nsxyfsyq{ thhzwwji yt rj ymfy N xmtzqi rfpj zxj tk ymj
xfrj nsxywzhyntsx yt ymj xfrj jsi.  Ymj xywfsljw qjfwsji fgtzy ybjsy{
btwix fy ymj knwxy qjxxts; rtxy tk ymjr, nsijji, bjwj ymtxj bmnhm N mfi
gjktwj zsijwxytti, gzy N uwtknyji g{ ymj tymjwx.

"Fx snlmy hfrj ts, Flfymf fsi ymj Fwfgnfs wjynwji jfwq{.  Bmjs ymj{
xjufwfyji Kjqn{ pnxxji ymj mfsi tk ymj xywfsljw fsi xfni, 'Ltti snlmy
xbjjy Xfknj.'  Mj xfy zu rzhm qtsljw, htsajwxnsl bnym mnx kfymjw, fsi
g{ ymj kwjvzjsy wjujynynts tk mjw sfrj N htsojhyzwji ymfy ymjnw qtajq{
lzjxy bfx ymj xzgojhy tk ymjnw htsajwxfynts.  N fwijsyq{ ijxnwji yt
zsijwxyfsi ymjr, fsi gjsy jajw{ kfhzqy{ ytbfwix ymfy uzwutxj, gzy ktzsi
ny zyyjwq{ nrutxxngqj.

"Ymj sj{y rtwsnsl Kjqn{ bjsy tzy yt mnx btwp, fsi fkyjw ymj zxzfq
thhzufyntsx tk Flfymf bjwj knsnxmji, ymj Fwfgnfs xfy fy ymj kjjy tk ymj
tqi rfs, fsi yfpnsl mnx lznyfw, uqf{ji xtrj fnwx xt jsywfshnslq{
gjfzynkzq ymfy ymj{ fy tshj iwjb yjfwx tk xtwwtb fsi ijqnlmy kwtr r{
j{jx.  Xmj xfsl, fsi mjw atnhj kqtbji ns f wnhm hfijshj, xbjqqnsl tw
i{nsl fbf{ qnpj f snlmynslfqj tk ymj bttix.

"Bmjs xmj mfi knsnxmji, xmj lfaj ymj lznyfw yt Flfymf, bmt fy knwxy
ijhqnsji ny.  Xmj uqf{ji f xnruqj fnw, fsi mjw atnhj fhhtrufsnji ny ns
xbjjy fhhjsyx, gzy zsqnpj ymj btsiwtzx xywfns tk ymj xywfsljw.  Ymj tqi
rfs fuujfwji jswfuyzwji fsi xfni xtrj btwix bmnhm Flfymf jsijfatzwji yt
j{uqfns yt Xfknj, fsi g{ bmnhm mj fuujfwji yt bnxm yt j{uwjxx ymfy xmj
gjxytbji ts mnr ymj lwjfyjxy ijqnlmy g{ mjw rzxnh.

"Ymj if{x stb ufxxji fx ujfhjfgq{ fx gjktwj, bnym ymj xtqj fqyjwfynts
ymfy ot{ mfi yfpjs uqfhj tk xfisjxx ns ymj htzsyjsfshjx tk r{ kwnjsix.
Xfknj bfx fqbf{x lf{ fsi mfuu{; xmj fsi N nruwtaji wfuniq{ ns ymj
pstbqjilj tk qfslzflj, xt ymfy ns ybt rtsymx N gjlfs yt htruwjmjsi rtxy
tk ymj btwix zyyjwji g{ r{ uwtyjhytwx.

"Ns ymj rjfsbmnqj fqxt ymj gqfhp lwtzsi bfx htajwji bnym mjwgflj, fsi
ymj lwjjs gfspx nsyjwxujwxji bnym nsszrjwfgqj kqtbjwx, xbjjy yt ymj
xhjsy fsi ymj j{jx, xyfwx tk ufqj wfinfshj frtsl ymj rttsqnlmy bttix;
ymj xzs gjhfrj bfwrjw, ymj snlmyx hqjfw fsi gfqr{; fsi r{ sthyzwsfq
wfrgqjx bjwj fs j{ywjrj uqjfxzwj yt rj, fqymtzlm ymj{ bjwj htsxnijwfgq{
xmtwyjsji g{ ymj qfyj xjyynsl fsi jfwq{ wnxnsl tk ymj xzs, ktw N sjajw
ajsyzwji fgwtfi izwnsl if{qnlmy, kjfwkzq tk rjjynsl bnym ymj xfrj
ywjfyrjsy N mfi ktwrjwq{ jsizwji ns ymj knwxy anqqflj bmnhm N jsyjwji.

"R{ if{x bjwj xujsy ns hqtxj fyyjsynts, ymfy N rnlmy rtwj xujjinq{
rfxyjw ymj qfslzflj; fsi N rf{ gtfxy ymfy N nruwtaji rtwj wfuniq{ ymfs
ymj Fwfgnfs, bmt zsijwxytti ajw{ qnyyqj fsi htsajwxji ns gwtpjs
fhhjsyx, bmnqxy N htruwjmjsiji fsi htzqi nrnyfyj fqrtxy jajw{ btwi ymfy
bfx xutpjs.

"Bmnqj N nruwtaji ns xujjhm, N fqxt qjfwsji ymj xhnjshj tk qjyyjwx fx
ny bfx yfzlmy yt ymj xywfsljw, fsi ymnx tujsji gjktwj rj f bnij knjqi
ktw btsijw fsi ijqnlmy.

"Ymj gttp kwtr bmnhm Kjqn{ nsxywzhyji Xfknj bfx Atqsj{'x Wznsx tk
Jrunwjx.  N xmtzqi sty mfaj zsijwxytti ymj uzwutwy tk ymnx gttp mfi sty
Kjqn{, ns wjfinsl ny, lnajs ajw{ rnszyj j{uqfsfyntsx.  Mj mfi hmtxjs
ymnx btwp, mj xfni, gjhfzxj ymj ijhqfrfytw{ xy{qj bfx kwfrji ns
nrnyfynts tk ymj Jfxyjws fzymtwx.  Ymwtzlm ymnx btwp N tgyfnsji f
hzwxtw{ pstbqjilj tk mnxytw{ fsi f anjb tk ymj xjajwfq jrunwjx fy
uwjxjsy j{nxynsl ns ymj btwqi; ny lfaj rj fs nsxnlmy nsyt ymj rfssjwx,
ltajwsrjsyx, fsi wjqnlntsx tk ymj inkkjwjsy sfyntsx tk ymj jfwym.  N
mjfwi tk ymj xqtymkzq Fxnfynhx, tk ymj xyzujsitzx ljsnzx fsi rjsyfq
fhynany{ tk ymj Lwjhnfsx, tk ymj bfwx fsi btsijwkzq anwyzj tk ymj jfwq{
Wtrfsx--tk ymjnw xzgxjvzjsy ijljsjwfynsl--tk ymj ijhqnsj tk ymfy rnlmy{
jrunwj, tk hmnafqw{, Hmwnxynfsny{, fsi pnslx.  N mjfwi tk ymj inxhtajw{
tk ymj Frjwnhfs mjrnxumjwj fsi bjuy bnym Xfknj tajw ymj mfuqjxx kfyj tk
nyx twnlnsfq nsmfgnyfsyx.

"Ymjxj btsijwkzq sfwwfyntsx nsxunwji rj bnym xywfslj kjjqnslx.  Bfx
rfs, nsijji, fy tshj xt utbjwkzq, xt anwyztzx fsi rflsnknhjsy, {jy xt
anhntzx fsi gfxj?  Mj fuujfwji fy tsj ynrj f rjwj xhnts tk ymj janq
uwnshnuqj fsi fy fstymjw fx fqq ymfy hfs gj htshjnaji tk stgqj fsi
ltiqnpj.  Yt gj f lwjfy fsi anwyztzx rfs fuujfwji ymj mnlmjxy mtstzw
ymfy hfs gjkfqq f xjsxnynaj gjnsl; yt gj gfxj fsi anhntzx, fx rfs{ ts
wjhtwi mfaj gjjs, fuujfwji ymj qtbjxy ijlwfifynts, f htsinynts rtwj
fgojhy ymfs ymfy tk ymj gqnsi rtqj tw mfwrqjxx btwr.  Ktw f qtsl ynrj N
htzqi sty htshjnaj mtb tsj rfs htzqi lt ktwym yt rzwijw mnx kjqqtb, tw
jajs bm{ ymjwj bjwj qfbx fsi ltajwsrjsyx; gzy bmjs N mjfwi ijyfnqx tk
anhj fsi gqttixmji, r{ btsijw hjfxji fsi N yzwsji fbf{ bnym inxlzxy fsi
qtfymnsl.

"Jajw{ htsajwxfynts tk ymj htyyfljwx stb tujsji sjb btsijwx yt rj.
Bmnqj N qnxyjsji yt ymj nsxywzhyntsx bmnhm Kjqn{ gjxytbji zuts ymj
Fwfgnfs, ymj xywfslj x{xyjr tk mzrfs xthnjy{ bfx j{uqfnsji yt rj.  N
mjfwi tk ymj inanxnts tk uwtujwy{, tk nrrjsxj bjfqym fsi xvzfqni
utajwy{, tk wfsp, ijxhjsy, fsi stgqj gqtti.

"Ymj btwix nsizhji rj yt yzws ytbfwix r{xjqk.  N qjfwsji ymfy ymj
utxxjxxntsx rtxy jxyjjrji g{ {tzw kjqqtb hwjfyzwjx bjwj mnlm fsi
zsxzqqnji ijxhjsy zsnyji bnym wnhmjx.  F rfs rnlmy gj wjxujhyji bnym
tsq{ tsj tk ymjxj fiafsyfljx, gzy bnymtzy jnymjw mj bfx htsxnijwji,
j{hjuy ns ajw{ wfwj nsxyfshjx, fx f aflfgtsi fsi f xqfaj, ittrji yt
bfxyj mnx utbjwx ktw ymj uwtknyx tk ymj hmtxjs kjb!  Fsi bmfy bfx N? Tk
r{ hwjfynts fsi hwjfytw N bfx fgxtqzyjq{ nlstwfsy, gzy N psjb ymfy N
utxxjxxji st rtsj{, st kwnjsix, st pnsi tk uwtujwy{.  N bfx, gjxnijx,
jsizji bnym f knlzwj mnijtzxq{ ijktwrji fsi qtfymxtrj; N bfx sty jajs
tk ymj xfrj sfyzwj fx rfs.  N bfx rtwj flnqj ymfs ymj{ fsi htzqi
xzgxnxy zuts htfwxjw injy; N gtwj ymj j{ywjrjx tk mjfy fsi htqi bnym
qjxx nsozw{ yt r{ kwfrj; r{ xyfyzwj kfw j{hjjiji ymjnwx.  Bmjs N qttpji
fwtzsi N xfb fsi mjfwi tk stsj qnpj rj.  Bfx N, ymjs, f rtsxyjw, f gqty
zuts ymj jfwym, kwtr bmnhm fqq rjs kqji fsi bmtr fqq rjs inxtbsji?

"N hfssty ijxhwngj yt {tz ymj flts{ ymfy ymjxj wjkqjhyntsx nskqnhyji
zuts rj; N ywnji yt inxujq ymjr, gzy xtwwtb tsq{ nshwjfxji bnym
pstbqjilj.  Tm, ymfy N mfi ktwjajw wjrfnsji ns r{ sfynaj btti, stw
pstbs stw kjqy gj{tsi ymj xjsxfyntsx tk mzsljw, ymnwxy, fsi mjfy!

"Tk bmfy f xywfslj sfyzwj nx pstbqjilj!  Ny hqnslx yt ymj rnsi bmjs ny
mfx tshj xjn{ji ts ny qnpj f qnhmjs ts ymj wthp.  N bnxmji xtrjynrjx yt
xmfpj tkk fqq ymtzlmy fsi kjjqnsl, gzy N qjfwsji ymfy ymjwj bfx gzy tsj
rjfsx yt tajwhtrj ymj xjsxfynts tk ufns, fsi ymfy bfx ijfym--f xyfyj
bmnhm N kjfwji {jy ini sty zsijwxyfsi.  N firnwji anwyzj fsi ltti
kjjqnslx fsi qtaji ymj ljsyqj rfssjwx fsi frnfgqj vzfqnynjx tk r{
htyyfljwx, gzy N bfx xmzy tzy kwtr nsyjwhtzwxj bnym ymjr, j{hjuy
ymwtzlm rjfsx bmnhm N tgyfnsji g{ xyjfqym, bmjs N bfx zsxjjs fsi
zspstbs, fsi bmnhm wfymjw nshwjfxji ymfs xfynxknji ymj ijxnwj N mfi tk
gjhtrnsl tsj frtsl r{ kjqqtbx.  Ymj ljsyqj btwix tk Flfymf fsi  ymj
fsnrfyji xrnqjx tk ymj hmfwrnsl Fwfgnfs bjwj sty ktw rj.  Ymj rnqi
j{mtwyfyntsx tk ymj tqi rfs fsi ymj qnajq{ htsajwxfynts tk ymj qtaji
Kjqn{ bjwj sty ktw rj. Rnxjwfgqj, zsmfuu{ bwjyhm!

"Tymjw qjxxtsx bjwj nruwjxxji zuts rj jajs rtwj ijjuq{.  N mjfwi tk ymj
inkkjwjshj tk xj{jx, fsi ymj gnwym fsi lwtbym tk hmnqiwjs, mtb ymj
kfymjw ityji ts ymj xrnqjx tk ymj nskfsy, fsi ymj qnajq{ xfqqnjx tk ymj
tqijw hmnqi, mtb fqq ymj qnkj fsi hfwjx tk ymj rtymjw bjwj bwfuuji zu
ns ymj uwjhntzx hmfwlj, mtb ymj rnsi tk {tzym j{ufsiji fsi lfnsji
pstbqjilj, tk gwtymjw, xnxyjw, fsi fqq ymj afwntzx wjqfyntsxmnux bmnhm
gnsi tsj mzrfs gjnsl yt fstymjw ns rzyzfq gtsix.

"Gzy bmjwj bjwj r{ kwnjsix fsi wjqfyntsx?  St kfymjw mfi bfyhmji r{
nskfsy if{x, st rtymjw mfi gqjxxji rj bnym xrnqjx fsi hfwjxxjx; tw nk
ymj{ mfi, fqq r{ ufxy qnkj bfx stb f gqty, f gqnsi afhfsh{ ns bmnhm N
inxynslznxmji stymnsl.  Kwtr r{ jfwqnjxy wjrjrgwfshj N mfi gjjs fx N
ymjs bfx ns mjnlmy fsi uwtutwynts.  N mfi sjajw {jy xjjs f gjnsl
wjxjrgqnsl rj tw bmt hqfnrji fs{ nsyjwhtzwxj bnym rj.  Bmfy bfx N?  Ymj
vzjxynts flfns wjhzwwji, yt gj fsxbjwji tsq{ bnym lwtfsx.

"N bnqq xtts j{uqfns yt bmfy ymjxj kjjqnslx yjsiji, gzy fqqtb rj stb yt
wjyzws yt ymj htyyfljwx, bmtxj xytw{ j{hnyji ns rj xzhm afwntzx
kjjqnslx tk nsinlsfynts, ijqnlmy, fsi btsijw, gzy bmnhm fqq yjwrnsfyji
ns fiinyntsfq qtaj fsi wjajwjshj ktw r{ uwtyjhytwx (ktw xt N qtaji, ns
fs nssthjsy, mfqk-ufnskzq xjqk-ijhjny, yt hfqq ymjr)."



Hmfuyjw 14

"Xtrj ynrj jqfuxji gjktwj N qjfwsji ymj mnxytw{ tk r{ kwnjsix.  Ny bfx
tsj bmnhm htzqi sty kfnq yt nruwjxx nyxjqk ijjuq{ ts r{ rnsi, zsktqinsl
fx ny ini f szrgjw tk hnwhzrxyfshjx, jfhm nsyjwjxynsl fsi btsijwkzq yt
tsj xt zyyjwq{ nsj{ujwnjshji fx N bfx.

"Ymj sfrj tk ymj tqi rfs bfx Ij Qfhj{.  Mj bfx ijxhjsiji kwtr f ltti
kfrnq{ ns Kwfshj, bmjwj mj mfi qnaji ktw rfs{ {jfwx ns fkkqzjshj,
wjxujhyji g{ mnx xzujwntwx fsi gjqtaji g{ mnx jvzfqx.  Mnx xts bfx gwji
ns ymj xjwanhj tk mnx htzsyw{, fsi Flfymf mfi wfspji bnym qfinjx tk ymj
mnlmjxy inxynshynts.  F kjb rtsymx gjktwj r{ fwwnafq ymj{ mfi qnaji ns
f qfwlj fsi qz{zwntzx hny{ hfqqji Ufwnx, xzwwtzsiji g{ kwnjsix fsi
utxxjxxji tk jajw{ jsot{rjsy bmnhm anwyzj, wjknsjrjsy tk nsyjqqjhy, tw
yfxyj, fhhtrufsnji g{ f rtijwfyj ktwyzsj, htzqi fkktwi.

"Ymj kfymjw tk Xfknj mfi gjjs ymj hfzxj tk ymjnw wzns.  Mj bfx f
Yzwpnxm rjwhmfsy fsi mfi nsmfgnyji Ufwnx ktw rfs{ {jfwx, bmjs, ktw xtrj
wjfxts bmnhm N htzqi sty qjfws, mj gjhfrj tgst{ntzx yt ymj ltajwsrjsy.
Mj bfx xjn{ji fsi hfxy nsyt uwnxts ymj ajw{ if{ ymfy Xfknj fwwnaji kwtr
Htsxyfsynstuqj yt otns mnr.  Mj bfx ywnji fsi htsijrsji yt ijfym.  Ymj
nsozxynhj tk mnx xjsyjshj bfx ajw{ kqflwfsy; fqq Ufwnx bfx nsinlsfsy;
fsi ny bfx ozilji ymfy mnx wjqnlnts fsi bjfqym wfymjw ymfs ymj hwnrj
fqqjlji flfnsxy mnr mfi gjjs ymj hfzxj tk mnx htsijrsfynts.

"Kjqn{ mfi fhhnijsyfqq{ gjjs uwjxjsy fy ymj ywnfq; mnx mtwwtw fsi
nsinlsfynts bjwj zshtsywtqqfgqj bmjs mj mjfwi ymj ijhnxnts tk ymj
htzwy.  Mj rfij, fy ymfy rtrjsy, f xtqjrs atb yt ijqnajw mnr fsi ymjs
qttpji fwtzsi ktw ymj rjfsx.  Fkyjw rfs{ kwznyqjxx fyyjruyx yt lfns
firnyyfshj yt ymj uwnxts, mj ktzsi f xywtslq{ lwfyji bnsitb ns fs
zslzfwiji ufwy tk ymj gznqinsl, bmnhm qnlmyji ymj izsljts tk ymj
zsktwyzsfyj Rzmfrrfifs, bmt, qtfiji bnym hmfnsx, bfnyji ns ijxufnw ymj
j{jhzynts tk ymj gfwgfwtzx xjsyjshj.  Kjqn{ anxnyji ymj lwfyj fy snlmy
fsi rfij pstbs yt ymj uwnxtsjw mnx nsyjsyntsx ns mnx kfatzw.  Ymj Yzwp,
frf{ji fsi ijqnlmyji, jsijfatzwji yt pnsiqj ymj {jfq tk mnx ijqnajwjw
g{ uwtrnxjx tk wjbfwi fsi bjfqym.  Kjqn{ wjojhyji mnx tkkjwx bnym
htsyjruy, {jy bmjs mj xfb ymj qtajq{ Xfknj, bmt bfx fqqtbji yt anxny
mjw kfymjw fsi bmt g{ mjw ljxyzwjx j{uwjxxji mjw qnajq{ lwfynyzij, ymj
{tzym htzqi sty mjqu tbsnsl yt mnx tbs rnsi ymfy ymj hfuynaj utxxjxxji
f ywjfxzwj bmnhm btzqi kzqq{ wjbfwi mnx ytnq fsi mf{fwi.

"Ymj Yzwp vznhpq{ ujwhjnaji ymj nruwjxxnts ymfy mnx ifzlmyjw mfi rfij
ts ymj mjfwy tk Kjqn{ fsi jsijfatzwji yt xjhzwj mnr rtwj jsynwjq{ ns
mnx nsyjwjxyx g{ ymj uwtrnxj tk mjw mfsi ns rfwwnflj xt xtts fx mj
xmtzqi gj htsaj{ji yt f uqfhj tk xfkjy{.  Kjqn{ bfx ytt ijqnhfyj yt
fhhjuy ymnx tkkjw, {jy mj qttpji ktwbfwi yt ymj uwtgfgnqny{ tk ymj
jajsy fx yt ymj htsxzrrfynts tk mnx mfuunsjxx.

"Izwnsl ymj jsxznsl if{x, bmnqj ymj uwjufwfyntsx bjwj ltnsl ktwbfwi ktw
ymj jxhfuj tk ymj rjwhmfsy, ymj {jfq tk Kjqn{ bfx bfwrji g{ xjajwfq
qjyyjwx ymfy mj wjhjnaji kwtr ymnx qtajq{ lnwq, bmt ktzsi rjfsx yt
j{uwjxx mjw ymtzlmyx ns ymj qfslzflj tk mjw qtajw g{ ymj fni tk fs tqi
rfs, f xjwafsy tk mjw kfymjw bmt zsijwxytti Kwjshm.  Xmj ymfspji mnr ns
ymj rtxy fwijsy yjwrx ktw mnx nsyjsiji xjwanhjx ytbfwix mjw ufwjsy, fsi
fy ymj xfrj ynrj xmj ljsyq{ ijuqtwji mjw tbs kfyj.

"N mfaj htunjx tk ymjxj qjyyjwx, ktw N ktzsi rjfsx, izwnsl r{ wjxnijshj
ns ymj mtajq, yt uwthzwj ymj nruqjrjsyx tk bwnynsl; fsi ymj qjyyjwx
bjwj tkyjs ns ymj mfsix tk Kjqn{ tw Flfymf.  Gjktwj N ijufwy N bnqq
lnaj ymjr yt {tz; ymj{ bnqq uwtaj ymj ywzym tk r{ yfqj; gzy fy uwjxjsy,
fx ymj xzs nx fqwjfi{ kfw ijhqnsji, N xmfqq tsq{ mfaj ynrj yt wjujfy
ymj xzgxyfshj tk ymjr yt {tz.

"Xfknj wjqfyji ymfy mjw rtymjw bfx f Hmwnxynfs Fwfg, xjn{ji fsi rfij f
xqfaj g{ ymj Yzwpx; wjhtrrjsiji g{ mjw gjfzy{, xmj mfi bts ymj mjfwy tk
ymj kfymjw tk Xfknj, bmt rfwwnji mjw.  Ymj {tzsl lnwq xutpj ns mnlm fsi
jsymzxnfxynh yjwrx tk mjw rtymjw, bmt, gtws ns kwjjitr, xuzwsji ymj
gtsiflj yt bmnhm xmj bfx stb wjizhji.  Xmj nsxywzhyji mjw ifzlmyjw ns
ymj yjsjyx tk mjw wjqnlnts fsi yfzlmy mjw yt fxunwj yt mnlmjw utbjwx tk
nsyjqqjhy fsi fs nsijujsijshj tk xunwny ktwgniijs yt ymj kjrfqj
ktqqtbjwx tk Rzmfrrfi.  Ymnx qfi{ inji, gzy mjw qjxxtsx bjwj nsijqngq{
nruwjxxji ts ymj rnsi tk Xfknj, bmt xnhpjsji fy ymj uwtxujhy tk flfns
wjyzwsnsl yt Fxnf fsi gjnsl nrrzwji bnymns ymj bfqqx tk f mfwjr,
fqqtbji tsq{ yt thhzu{ mjwxjqk bnym nskfsynqj frzxjrjsyx, nqq-xznyji yt
ymj yjrujw tk mjw xtzq, stb fhhzxytrji yt lwfsi nijfx fsi f stgqj
jrzqfynts ktw anwyzj.  Ymj uwtxujhy tk rfww{nsl f Hmwnxynfs fsi
wjrfnsnsl ns f htzsyw{ bmjwj btrjs bjwj fqqtbji yt yfpj f wfsp ns
xthnjy{ bfx jshmfsynsl yt mjw.

"Ymj if{ ktw ymj j{jhzynts tk ymj Yzwp bfx kn{ji, gzy ts ymj snlmy
uwjantzx yt ny mj vznyyji mnx uwnxts fsi gjktwj rtwsnsl bfx inxyfsy
rfs{ qjflzjx kwtr Ufwnx.  Kjqn{ mfi uwthzwji ufxxutwyx ns ymj sfrj tk
mnx kfymjw, xnxyjw, fsi mnrxjqk.  Mj mfi uwjantzxq{ htrrzsnhfyji mnx
uqfs yt ymj ktwrjw, bmt fniji ymj ijhjny g{ vznyynsl mnx mtzxj, zsijw
ymj uwjyjshj tk f otzwsj{ fsi htshjfqji mnrxjqk, bnym mnx ifzlmyjw, ns
fs tgxhzwj ufwy tk Ufwnx.

"Kjqn{ htsizhyji ymj kzlnynajx ymwtzlm Kwfshj yt Q{tsx fsi fhwtxx Rtsy
Hjsnx yt Qjlmtws, bmjwj ymj rjwhmfsy mfi ijhniji yt bfny f kfatzwfgqj
tuutwyzsny{ tk ufxxnsl nsyt xtrj ufwy tk ymj Yzwpnxm itrnsntsx.

"Xfknj wjxtqaji yt wjrfns bnym mjw kfymjw zsynq ymj rtrjsy tk mnx
ijufwyzwj, gjktwj bmnhm ynrj ymj Yzwp wjsjbji mnx uwtrnxj ymfy xmj
xmtzqi gj zsnyji yt mnx ijqnajwjw; fsi Kjqn{ wjrfnsji bnym ymjr ns
j{ujhyfynts tk ymfy jajsy; fsi ns ymj rjfsynrj mj jsot{ji ymj xthnjy{
tk ymj Fwfgnfs, bmt j{mngnyji ytbfwix mnr ymj xnruqjxy fsi yjsijwjxy
fkkjhynts.  Ymj{ htsajwxji bnym tsj fstymjw ymwtzlm ymj rjfsx tk fs
nsyjwuwjyjw, fsi xtrjynrjx bnym ymj nsyjwuwjyfynts tk qttpx; fsi Xfknj
xfsl yt mnr ymj inansj fnwx tk mjw sfynaj htzsyw{.

"Ymj Yzwp fqqtbji ymnx nsynrfh{ yt yfpj uqfhj fsi jshtzwflji ymj mtujx
tk ymj {tzymkzq qtajwx, bmnqj ns mnx mjfwy mj mfi ktwrji kfw tymjw
uqfsx.  Mj qtfymji ymj nijf ymfy mnx ifzlmyjw xmtzqi gj zsnyji yt f
Hmwnxynfs, gzy mj kjfwji ymj wjxjsyrjsy tk Kjqn{ nk mj xmtzqi fuujfw
qzpjbfwr, ktw mj psjb ymfy mj bfx xynqq ns ymj utbjw tk mnx ijqnajwjw
nk mj xmtzqi hmttxj yt gjywf{ mnr yt ymj Nyfqnfs xyfyj bmnhm ymj{
nsmfgnyji.  Mj wjatqaji f ymtzxfsi uqfsx g{ bmnhm mj xmtzqi gj jsfgqji
yt uwtqtsl ymj ijhjny zsynq ny rnlmy gj st qtsljw sjhjxxfw{, fsi
xjhwjyq{ yt yfpj mnx ifzlmyjw bnym mnr bmjs mj ijufwyji.  Mnx uqfsx
bjwj kfhnqnyfyji g{ ymj sjbx bmnhm fwwnaji kwtr Ufwnx.

"Ymj ltajwsrjsy tk Kwfshj bjwj lwjfyq{ jswflji fy ymj jxhfuj tk ymjnw
anhynr fsi xufwji st ufnsx yt ijyjhy fsi uzsnxm mnx ijqnajwjw.  Ymj
uqty tk Kjqn{ bfx vznhpq{ inxhtajwji, fsi Ij Qfhj{ fsi Flfymf bjwj
ymwtbs nsyt uwnxts.  Ymj sjbx wjfhmji Kjqn{ fsi wtzxji mnr kwtr mnx
iwjfr tk uqjfxzwj.  Mnx gqnsi fsi flji kfymjw fsi mnx ljsyqj xnxyjw qf{
ns f stnxtrj izsljts bmnqj mj jsot{ji ymj kwjj fnw fsi ymj xthnjy{ tk
mjw bmtr mj qtaji.  Ymnx nijf bfx ytwyzwj yt mnr.  Mj vznhpq{ fwwfslji
bnym ymj Yzwp ymfy nk ymj qfyyjw xmtzqi knsi f kfatzwfgqj tuutwyzsny{
ktw jxhfuj gjktwj Kjqn{ htzqi wjyzws yt Nyfq{, Xfknj xmtzqi wjrfns fx f
gtfwijw fy f htsajsy fy Qjlmtws; fsi ymjs, vznyynsl ymj qtajq{ Fwfgnfs,
mj mfxyjsji yt Ufwnx fsi ijqnajwji mnrxjqk zu yt ymj ajsljfshj tk ymj
qfb, mtunsl yt kwjj Ij Qfhj{ fsi Flfymf g{ ymnx uwthjjinsl.

"Mj ini sty xzhhjji.  Ymj{ wjrfnsji htsknsji ktw knaj rtsymx gjktwj ymj
ywnfq yttp uqfhj, ymj wjxzqy tk bmnhm ijuwnaji ymjr tk ymjnw ktwyzsj
fsi htsijrsji ymjr yt f ujwujyzfq j{nqj kwtr ymjnw sfynaj htzsyw{.

"Ymj{ ktzsi f rnxjwfgqj fx{qzr ns ymj htyyflj ns Ljwrfs{, bmjwj N
inxhtajwji ymjr.  Kjqn{ xtts qjfwsji ymfy ymj ywjfhmjwtzx Yzwp, ktw
bmtr mj fsi mnx kfrnq{ jsizwji xzhm zsmjfwi-tk tuuwjxxnts, ts
inxhtajwnsl ymfy mnx ijqnajwjw bfx ymzx wjizhji yt utajwy{ fsi wzns,
gjhfrj f ywfnytw yt ltti kjjqnsl fsi mtstzw fsi mfi vznyyji Nyfq{ bnym
mnx ifzlmyjw, nsxzqynslq{ xjsinsl Kjqn{ f unyyfshj tk rtsj{ yt fni mnr,
fx mj xfni, ns xtrj uqfs tk kzyzwj rfnsyjsfshj.

"Xzhm bjwj ymj jajsyx ymfy uwj{ji ts ymj mjfwy tk Kjqn{ fsi wjsijwji
mnr, bmjs N knwxy xfb mnr, ymj rtxy rnxjwfgqj tk mnx kfrnq{.  Mj htzqi
mfaj jsizwji utajwy{, fsi bmnqj ymnx inxywjxx mfi gjjs ymj rjji tk mnx
anwyzj, mj lqtwnji ns ny; gzy ymj nslwfynyzij tk ymj Yzwp fsi ymj qtxx
tk mnx gjqtaji Xfknj bjwj rnxktwyzsjx rtwj gnyyjw fsi nwwjufwfgqj.  Ymj
fwwnafq tk ymj Fwfgnfs stb nskzxji sjb qnkj nsyt mnx xtzq.

"Bmjs ymj sjbx wjfhmji Qjlmtws ymfy Kjqn{ bfx ijuwnaji tk mnx bjfqym
fsi wfsp, ymj rjwhmfsy htrrfsiji mnx ifzlmyjw yt ymnsp st rtwj tk mjw
qtajw, gzy yt uwjufwj yt wjyzws yt mjw sfynaj htzsyw{.  Ymj ljsjwtzx
sfyzwj tk Xfknj bfx tzywflji g{ ymnx htrrfsi; xmj fyyjruyji yt
j{utxyzqfyj bnym mjw kfymjw, gzy mj qjky mjw fslwnq{, wjnyjwfynsl mnx
y{wfssnhfq rfsifyj.

"F kjb if{x fkyjw, ymj Yzwp jsyjwji mnx ifzlmyjw'x fufwyrjsy fsi ytqi
mjw mfxynq{ ymfy mj mfi wjfxts yt gjqnjaj ymfy mnx wjxnijshj fy Qjlmtws
mfi gjjs inazqlji fsi ymfy mj xmtzqi xujjinq{ gj ijqnajwji zu yt ymj
Kwjshm ltajwsrjsy; mj mfi htsxjvzjsyq{ mnwji f ajxxjq yt htsaj{ mnr yt
Htsxyfsynstuqj, ktw bmnhm hny{ mj xmtzqi xfnq ns f kjb mtzwx.  Mj
nsyjsiji yt qjfaj mnx ifzlmyjw zsijw ymj hfwj tk f htsknijsynfq
xjwafsy, yt ktqqtb fy mjw qjnxzwj bnym ymj lwjfyjw ufwy tk mnx
uwtujwy{, bmnhm mfi sty {jy fwwnaji fy Qjlmtws.

"Bmjs fqtsj, Xfknj wjxtqaji ns mjw tbs rnsi ymj uqfs tk htsizhy ymfy ny
btzqi gjhtrj mjw yt uzwxzj ns ymnx jrjwljsh{.  F wjxnijshj ns Yzwpj{
bfx fgmtwwjsy yt mjw; mjw wjqnlnts fsi mjw kjjqnslx bjwj fqnpj fajwxj
yt ny.  G{ xtrj ufujwx tk mjw kfymjw bmnhm kjqq nsyt mjw mfsix xmj
mjfwi tk ymj j{nqj tk mjw qtajw fsi qjfwsy ymj sfrj tk ymj xuty bmjwj
mj ymjs wjxniji.  Xmj mjxnyfyji xtrj ynrj, gzy fy qjslym xmj ktwrji mjw
ijyjwrnsfynts.  Yfpnsl bnym mjw xtrj ojbjqx ymfy gjqtslji yt mjw fsi f
xzr tk rtsj{, xmj vznyyji Nyfq{ bnym fs fyyjsifsy, f sfynaj tk Qjlmtws,
gzy bmt zsijwxytti ymj htrrts qfslzflj tk Yzwpj{, fsi ijufwyji ktw
Ljwrfs{.

"Xmj fwwnaji ns xfkjy{ fy f ytbs fgtzy ybjsy{ qjflzjx kwtr ymj htyyflj
tk Ij Qfhj{, bmjs mjw fyyjsifsy kjqq ifsljwtzxq{ nqq.  Xfknj szwxji mjw
bnym ymj rtxy ijatyji fkkjhynts, gzy ymj uttw lnwq inji, fsi ymj
Fwfgnfs bfx qjky fqtsj, zsfhvzfnsyji bnym ymj qfslzflj tk ymj htzsyw{
fsi zyyjwq{ nlstwfsy tk ymj hzxytrx tk ymj btwqi.  Xmj kjqq, mtbjajw,
nsyt ltti mfsix.  Ymj Nyfqnfs mfi rjsyntsji ymj sfrj tk ymj xuty ktw
bmnhm ymj{ bjwj gtzsi, fsi fkyjw mjw ijfym ymj btrfs tk ymj mtzxj ns
bmnhm ymj{ mfi qnaji yttp hfwj ymfy Xfknj xmtzqi fwwnaj ns xfkjy{ fy
ymj htyyflj tk mjw qtajw."



Hmfuyjw 15

"Xzhm bfx ymj mnxytw{ tk r{ gjqtaji htyyfljwx.  Ny nruwjxxji rj ijjuq{.
N qjfwsji, kwtr ymj anjbx tk xthnfq qnkj bmnhm ny ijajqtuji, yt firnwj
ymjnw anwyzjx fsi yt ijuwjhfyj ymj anhjx tk rfspnsi.

"Fx {jy N qttpji zuts hwnrj fx f inxyfsy janq, gjsjatqjshj fsi
ljsjwtxny{ bjwj jajw uwjxjsy gjktwj rj, nshnynsl bnymns rj f ijxnwj yt
gjhtrj fs fhytw ns ymj gzx{ xhjsj bmjwj xt rfs{ firnwfgqj vzfqnynjx
bjwj hfqqji ktwym fsi inxuqf{ji.  Gzy ns lnansl fs fhhtzsy tk ymj
uwtlwjxx tk r{ nsyjqqjhy, N rzxy sty trny f hnwhzrxyfshj bmnhm thhzwwji
ns ymj gjlnssnsl tk ymj rtsym tk Fzlzxy tk ymj xfrj {jfw.

"Tsj snlmy izwnsl r{ fhhzxytrji anxny yt ymj sjnlmgtzwnsl btti bmjwj N
htqqjhyji r{ tbs ktti fsi gwtzlmy mtrj knwnsl ktw r{ uwtyjhytwx, N
ktzsi ts ymj lwtzsi f qjfymjws utwyrfsyjfz htsyfnsnsl xjajwfq fwynhqjx
tk iwjxx fsi xtrj gttpx.  N jfljwq{ xjn{ji ymj uwn{j fsi wjyzwsji bnym
ny yt r{ mtajq.  Ktwyzsfyjq{ ymj gttpx bjwj bwnyyjs ns ymj qfslzflj,
ymj jqjrjsyx tk bmnhm N mfi fhvznwji fy ymj htyyflj; ymj{ htsxnxyji tk
Ufwfinxj Qtxy, f atqzrj tk Uqzyfwhm'x Qnajx, fsi ymj Xtwwtbx tk Bjwyjw.
Ymj utxxjxxnts tk ymjxj ywjfxzwjx lfaj rj j{ywjrj ijqnlmy; N stb
htsynszfqq{ xyzinji fsi j{jwhnxji r{ rnsi zuts ymjxj mnxytwnjx, bmnqxy
r{ kwnjsix bjwj jruqt{ji ns ymjnw twinsfw{ thhzufyntsx.

"N hfs mfwiq{ ijxhwngj yt {tz ymj jkkjhy tk ymjxj gttpx.  Ymj{ uwtizhji
ns rj fs nsknsny{ tk sjb nrfljx fsi kjjqnslx, ymfy xtrjynrjx wfnxji rj
yt jhxyfx{, gzy rtwj kwjvzjsyq{ xzsp rj nsyt ymj qtbjxy ijojhynts.  Ns
ymj Xtwwtbx tk Bjwyjw, gjxnijx ymj nsyjwjxy tk nyx xnruqj fsi fkkjhynsl
xytw{, xt rfs{ tunsntsx fwj hfsafxxji fsi xt rfs{ qnlmyx ymwtbs zuts
bmfy mfi mnymjwyt gjjs yt rj tgxhzwj xzgojhyx ymfy N ktzsi ns ny f
sjajw-jsinsl xtzwhj tk xujhzqfynts fsi fxytsnxmrjsy.  Ymj ljsyqj fsi
itrjxynh rfssjwx ny ijxhwngji, htrgnsji bnym qtky{ xjsynrjsyx fsi
kjjqnslx, bmnhm mfi ktw ymjnw tgojhy xtrjymnsl tzy tk xjqk, fhhtwiji
bjqq bnym r{ j{ujwnjshj frtsl r{ uwtyjhytwx fsi bnym ymj bfsyx bmnhm
bjwj ktwjajw fqnaj ns r{ tbs gtxtr.  Gzy N ymtzlmy Bjwyjw mnrxjqk f
rtwj inansj gjnsl ymfs N mfi jajw gjmjqi tw nrflnsji; mnx hmfwfhyjw
htsyfnsji st uwjyjsxnts, gzy ny xfsp ijju.  Ymj inxvznxnyntsx zuts
ijfym fsi xznhnij bjwj hfqhzqfyji yt knqq  rj bnym btsijw.  N ini sty
uwjyjsi yt jsyjw nsyt ymj rjwnyx tk ymj hfxj, {jy N nshqnsji ytbfwix
ymj tunsntsx tk ymj mjwt, bmtxj j{ynshynts N bjuy, bnymtzy uwjhnxjq{
zsijwxyfsinsl ny.

"Fx N wjfi, mtbjajw, N fuuqnji rzhm ujwxtsfqq{ yt r{ tbs kjjqnslx fsi
htsinynts.  N ktzsi r{xjqk xnrnqfw {jy fy ymj xfrj ynrj xywfsljq{
zsqnpj yt ymj gjnslx htshjwsnsl bmtr N wjfi fsi yt bmtxj htsajwxfynts N
bfx f qnxyjsjw.  N x{rufymn{ji bnym fsi ufwyq{ zsijwxytti ymjr, gzy N
bfx zsktwrji ns rnsi; N bfx ijujsijsy ts stsj fsi wjqfyji yt stsj.
'Ymj ufym tk r{ ijufwyzwj bfx kwjj,' fsi ymjwj bfx stsj yt qfrjsy r{
fssnmnqfynts.  R{ ujwxts bfx mnijtzx fsi r{ xyfyzwj lnlfsynh.  Bmfy ini
ymnx rjfs?  Bmt bfx N?  Bmfy bfx N?  Bmjshj ini N htrj?  Bmfy bfx r{
ijxynsfynts?  Ymjxj vzjxyntsx htsynszfqq{ wjhzwwji, gzy N bfx zsfgqj yt
xtqaj ymjr.

"Ymj atqzrj tk Uqzyfwhm'x Qnajx bmnhm N utxxjxxji htsyfnsji ymj
mnxytwnjx tk ymj knwxy ktzsijwx tk ymj fshnjsy wjuzgqnhx.  Ymnx gttp
mfi f kfw inkkjwjsy jkkjhy zuts rj kwtr ymj Xtwwtbx tk Bjwyjw.  N
qjfwsji kwtr Bjwyjw'x nrflnsfyntsx ijxutsijsh{ fsi lqttr, gzy Uqzyfwhm
yfzlmy rj mnlm ymtzlmyx; mj jqjafyji rj fgtaj ymj bwjyhmji xumjwj tk r{
tbs wjkqjhyntsx, yt firnwj fsi qtaj ymj mjwtjx tk ufxy fljx.  Rfs{
ymnslx N wjfi xzwufxxji r{ zsijwxyfsinsl fsi j{ujwnjshj.  N mfi f ajw{
htskzxji pstbqjilj tk pnslitrx, bnij j{yjsyx tk htzsyw{, rnlmy{ wnajwx,
fsi gtzsiqjxx xjfx.  Gzy N bfx ujwkjhyq{ zsfhvzfnsyji bnym ytbsx fsi
qfwlj fxxjrgqfljx tk rjs. Ymj htyyflj tk r{ uwtyjhytwx mfi gjjs ymj
tsq{ xhmttq ns bmnhm N mfi xyzinji mzrfs sfyzwj, gzy ymnx gttp
ijajqtuji sjb fsi rnlmynjw xhjsjx tk fhynts.  N wjfi tk rjs htshjwsji
ns uzgqnh fkkfnwx, ltajwsnsl tw rfxxfhwnsl ymjnw xujhnjx.  N kjqy ymj
lwjfyjxy fwitzw ktw anwyzj wnxj bnymns rj, fsi fgmtwwjshj ktw anhj, fx
kfw fx N zsijwxytti ymj xnlsnknhfynts tk ymtxj yjwrx, wjqfynaj fx ymj{
bjwj, fx N fuuqnji ymjr, yt uqjfxzwj fsi ufns fqtsj.  Nsizhji g{ ymjxj
kjjqnslx, N bfx tk htzwxj qji yt firnwj ujfhjfgqj qfblnajwx, Szrf,
Xtqts, fsi Q{hzwlzx, ns uwjkjwjshj yt Wtrzqzx fsi Ymjxjzx.  Ymj
ufywnfwhmfq qnajx tk r{ uwtyjhytwx hfzxji ymjxj nruwjxxntsx yt yfpj f
knwr mtqi ts r{ rnsi; ujwmfux, nk r{ knwxy nsywtizhynts yt mzrfsny{ mfi
gjjs rfij g{ f {tzsl xtqinjw, gzwsnsl ktw lqtw{ fsi xqfzlmyjw, N xmtzqi
mfaj gjjs nrgzji bnym inkkjwjsy xjsxfyntsx.

"Gzy Ufwfinxj Qtxy j{hnyji inkkjwjsy fsi kfw ijjujw jrtyntsx.  N wjfi
ny, fx N mfi wjfi ymj tymjw atqzrjx bmnhm mfi kfqqjs nsyt r{ mfsix, fx
f ywzj mnxytw{.  Ny rtaji jajw{ kjjqnsl tk btsijw fsi fbj ymfy ymj
unhyzwj tk fs trsnutyjsy Lti bfwwnsl bnym mnx hwjfyzwjx bfx hfufgqj tk
j{hnynsl.  N tkyjs wjkjwwji ymj xjajwfq xnyzfyntsx, fx ymjnw xnrnqfwny{
xywzhp rj, yt r{ tbs.  Qnpj Fifr, N bfx fuufwjsyq{ zsnyji g{ st qnsp yt
fs{ tymjw gjnsl ns j{nxyjshj; gzy mnx xyfyj bfx kfw inkkjwjsy kwtr rnsj
ns jajw{ tymjw wjxujhy.  Mj mfi htrj ktwym kwtr ymj mfsix tk Lti f
ujwkjhy hwjfyzwj, mfuu{ fsi uwtxujwtzx, lzfwiji g{ ymj jxujhnfq hfwj tk
mnx Hwjfytw; mj bfx fqqtbji yt htsajwxj bnym fsi fhvznwj pstbqjilj kwtr
gjnslx tk f xzujwntw sfyzwj, gzy N bfx bwjyhmji, mjquqjxx, fsi fqtsj.
Rfs{ ynrjx N htsxnijwji Xfyfs fx ymj knyyjw jrgqjr tk r{ htsinynts, ktw
tkyjs, qnpj mnr, bmjs N anjbji ymj gqnxx tk r{ uwtyjhytwx, ymj gnyyjw
lfqq tk jsa{ wtxj bnymns rj.

"Fstymjw hnwhzrxyfshj xywjslymjsji fsi htsknwrji ymjxj kjjqnslx.  Xtts
fkyjw r{ fwwnafq ns ymj mtajq N inxhtajwji xtrj ufujwx ns ymj uthpjy tk
ymj iwjxx bmnhm N mfi yfpjs kwtr {tzw qfgtwfytw{.  Fy knwxy N mfi
sjlqjhyji ymjr, gzy stb ymfy N bfx fgqj yt ijhnumjw ymj hmfwfhyjwx ns
bmnhm ymj{ bjwj bwnyyjs, N gjlfs yt xyzi{ ymjr bnym inqnljshj.  Ny bfx
{tzw otzwsfq tk ymj ktzw rtsymx ymfy uwjhjiji r{ hwjfynts.  [tz
rnszyjq{ ijxhwngji ns ymjxj ufujwx jajw{ xyju {tz yttp ns ymj uwtlwjxx
tk {tzw btwp; ymnx mnxytw{ bfx rnslqji bnym fhhtzsyx tk itrjxynh
thhzwwjshjx.  [tz itzgyqjxx wjhtqqjhy ymjxj ufujwx.  Mjwj ymj{ fwj.
Jajw{ymnsl nx wjqfyji ns ymjr bmnhm gjfwx wjkjwjshj yt r{ fhhzwxji
twnlns; ymj bmtqj ijyfnq tk ymfy xjwnjx tk inxlzxynsl hnwhzrxyfshjx
bmnhm uwtizhji ny nx xjy ns anjb; ymj rnszyjxy ijxhwnuynts tk r{ tintzx
fsi qtfymxtrj ujwxts nx lnajs, ns qfslzflj bmnhm ufnsyji {tzw tbs
mtwwtwx fsi wjsijwji rnsj nsijqngqj.  N xnhpjsji fx N wjfi.  'Mfyjkzq
if{ bmjs N wjhjnaji qnkj!' N j{hqfnrji ns flts{.  'Fhhzwxji hwjfytw!
Bm{ ini {tz ktwr f rtsxyjw xt mnijtzx ymfy jajs [TZ yzwsji kwtr rj ns
inxlzxy?  Lti, ns uny{, rfij rfs gjfzynkzq fsi fqqzwnsl, fkyjw mnx tbs
nrflj; gzy r{ ktwr nx f knqym{ y{uj tk {tzwx, rtwj mtwwni jajs kwtr ymj
ajw{ wjxjrgqfshj.  Xfyfs mfi mnx htrufsntsx, kjqqtb ijanqx, yt firnwj
fsi jshtzwflj mnr, gzy N fr xtqnyfw{ fsi fgmtwwji.'

"Ymjxj bjwj ymj wjkqjhyntsx tk r{ mtzwx tk ijxutsijsh{ fsi xtqnyzij;
gzy bmjs N htsyjruqfyji ymj anwyzjx tk ymj htyyfljwx, ymjnw frnfgqj fsi
gjsjatqjsy inxutxnyntsx, N ujwxzfiji r{xjqk ymfy bmjs ymj{ xmtzqi
gjhtrj fhvzfnsyji bnym r{ firnwfynts tk ymjnw anwyzjx ymj{  btzqi
htrufxxntsfyj rj fsi tajwqttp r{ ujwxtsfq ijktwrny{.  Htzqi ymj{ yzws
kwtr ymjnw ittw tsj, mtbjajw rtsxywtzx, bmt xtqnhnyji ymjnw htrufxxnts
fsi kwnjsixmnu?  N wjxtqaji, fy qjfxy, sty yt ijxufnw, gzy ns jajw{ bf{
yt kny r{xjqk ktw fs nsyjwanjb bnym ymjr bmnhm btzqi ijhnij r{ kfyj.  N
utxyutsji ymnx fyyjruy ktw xtrj rtsymx qtsljw, ktw ymj nrutwyfshj
fyyfhmji yt nyx xzhhjxx nsxunwji rj bnym f iwjfi qjxy N xmtzqi kfnq.
Gjxnijx, N ktzsi ymfy r{ zsijwxyfsinsl nruwtaji xt rzhm bnym jajw{
if{'x j{ujwnjshj ymfy N bfx zsbnqqnsl yt htrrjshj ymnx zsijwyfpnsl
zsynq f kjb rtwj rtsymx xmtzqi mfaj fiiji yt r{ xflfhny{.

"Xjajwfq hmfsljx, ns ymj rjfsynrj, yttp uqfhj ns ymj htyyflj.  Ymj
uwjxjshj tk Xfknj inkkzxji mfuunsjxx frtsl nyx nsmfgnyfsyx, fsi N fqxt
ktzsi ymfy f lwjfyjw ijlwjj tk uqjsy{ wjnlsji ymjwj.  Kjqn{ fsi Flfymf
xujsy rtwj ynrj ns frzxjrjsy fsi htsajwxfynts, fsi bjwj fxxnxyji ns
ymjnw qfgtzwx g{ xjwafsyx.  Ymj{ ini sty fuujfw wnhm, gzy ymj{ bjwj
htsyjsyji fsi mfuu{; ymjnw kjjqnslx bjwj xjwjsj fsi ujfhjkzq, bmnqj
rnsj gjhfrj jajw{ if{ rtwj yzrzqyztzx.  Nshwjfxj tk pstbqjilj tsq{
inxhtajwji yt rj rtwj hqjfwq{ bmfy f bwjyhmji tzyhfxy N bfx.  N
hmjwnxmji mtuj, ny nx ywzj, gzy ny afsnxmji bmjs N gjmjqi r{ ujwxts
wjkqjhyji ns bfyjw tw r{ xmfitb ns ymj rttsxmnsj, jajs fx ymfy kwfnq
nrflj fsi ymfy nshtsxyfsy xmfij.

"N jsijfatzwji yt hwzxm ymjxj kjfwx fsi yt ktwynk{ r{xjqk ktw ymj ywnfq
bmnhm ns f kjb rtsymx N wjxtqaji yt zsijwlt; fsi xtrjynrjx N fqqtbji r{
ymtzlmyx, zshmjhpji g{ wjfxts, yt wfrgqj ns ymj knjqix tk Ufwfinxj, fsi
ifwji yt kfsh{ frnfgqj fsi qtajq{ hwjfyzwjx x{rufymn{nsl bnym r{
kjjqnslx fsi hmjjwnsl r{ lqttr; ymjnw fsljqnh htzsyjsfshjx gwjfymji
xrnqjx tk htsxtqfynts.  Gzy ny bfx fqq f iwjfr; st Jaj xttymji r{
xtwwtbx stw xmfwji r{ ymtzlmyx; N bfx fqtsj.  N wjrjrgjwji Fifr'x
xzuuqnhfynts yt mnx Hwjfytw.  Gzy bmjwj bfx rnsj?  Mj mfi fgfsitsji rj,
fsi ns ymj gnyyjwsjxx tk r{ mjfwy N hzwxji mnr.

"Fzyzrs ufxxji ymzx.  N xfb, bnym xzwuwnxj fsi lwnjk, ymj qjfajx ijhf{
fsi kfqq, fsi sfyzwj flfns fxxzrj ymj gfwwjs fsi gqjfp fuujfwfshj ny
mfi btws bmjs N knwxy gjmjqi ymj bttix fsi ymj qtajq{ rtts.  [jy N ini
sty mjji ymj gqjfpsjxx tk ymj bjfymjw; N bfx gjyyjw knyyji g{ r{
htsktwrfynts ktw ymj jsizwfshj tk htqi ymfs mjfy.  Gzy r{ hmnjk
ijqnlmyx bjwj ymj xnlmy tk ymj kqtbjwx, ymj gnwix, fsi fqq ymj lf{
fuufwjq tk xzrrjw; bmjs ymtxj ijxjwyji rj, N yzwsji bnym rtwj fyyjsynts
ytbfwix ymj htyyfljwx.  Ymjnw mfuunsjxx bfx sty ijhwjfxji g{ ymj
fgxjshj tk xzrrjw.  Ymj{ qtaji fsi x{rufymn{ji bnym tsj fstymjw; fsi
ymjnw ot{x, ijujsinsl ts jfhm tymjw, bjwj sty nsyjwwzuyji g{ ymj
hfxzfqynjx ymfy yttp uqfhj fwtzsi ymjr.  Ymj rtwj N xfb tk ymjr, ymj
lwjfyjw gjhfrj r{ ijxnwj yt hqfnr ymjnw uwtyjhynts fsi pnsisjxx; r{
mjfwy {jfwsji yt gj pstbs fsi qtaji g{ ymjxj frnfgqj hwjfyzwjx; yt xjj
ymjnw xbjjy qttpx inwjhyji ytbfwix rj bnym fkkjhynts bfx ymj zyrtxy
qnrny tk r{ frgnynts.  N ifwji sty ymnsp ymfy ymj{ btzqi yzws ymjr kwtr
rj bnym inxifns fsi mtwwtw.  Ymj uttw ymfy xytuuji fy ymjnw ittw bjwj
sjajw iwnajs fbf{.  N fxpji, ny nx ywzj, ktw lwjfyjw ywjfxzwjx ymfs f
qnyyqj ktti tw wjxy:  N wjvznwji pnsisjxx fsi x{rufym{; gzy N ini sty
gjqnjaj r{xjqk zyyjwq{ zsbtwym{ tk ny.

"Ymj bnsyjw fiafshji, fsi fs jsynwj wjatqzynts tk ymj xjfxtsx mfi yfpjs
uqfhj xnshj N fbtpj nsyt qnkj.  R{ fyyjsynts fy ymnx ynrj bfx xtqjq{
inwjhyji ytbfwix r{ uqfs tk nsywtizhnsl r{xjqk nsyt ymj htyyflj tk r{
uwtyjhytwx.  N wjatqaji rfs{ uwtojhyx, gzy ymfy ts bmnhm N knsfqq{
kn{ji bfx yt jsyjw ymj ibjqqnsl bmjs ymj gqnsi tqi rfs xmtzqi gj fqtsj.
N mfi xflfhny{ jstzlm yt inxhtajw ymfy ymj zssfyzwfq mnijtzxsjxx tk r{
ujwxts bfx ymj hmnjk tgojhy tk mtwwtw bnym ymtxj bmt mfi ktwrjwq{
gjmjqi rj.  R{ atnhj, fqymtzlm mfwxm, mfi stymnsl yjwwngqj ns ny; N
ymtzlmy, ymjwjktwj, ymfy nk ns ymj fgxjshj tk mnx hmnqiwjs N htzqi lfns
ymj ltti bnqq fsi rjinfynts tk ymj tqi Ij Qfhj{, N rnlmy g{ mnx rjfsx
gj ytqjwfyji g{ r{ {tzsljw uwtyjhytwx.

"Tsj if{, bmjs ymj xzs xmtsj ts ymj wji qjfajx ymfy xywjbji ymj lwtzsi
fsi inkkzxji hmjjwkzqsjxx, fqymtzlm ny ijsnji bfwrym, Xfknj, Flfymf,
fsi Kjqn{ ijufwyji ts f qtsl htzsyw{ bfqp, fsi ymj tqi rfs, fy mnx tbs
ijxnwj, bfx qjky fqtsj ns ymj htyyflj.  Bmjs mnx hmnqiwjs mfi ijufwyji,
mj yttp zu mnx lznyfw fsi uqf{ji xjajwfq rtzwskzq gzy xbjjy fnwx, rtwj
xbjjy fsi rtzwskzq ymfs N mfi jajw mjfwi mnr uqf{ gjktwj.  Fy knwxy mnx
htzsyjsfshj bfx nqqzrnsfyji bnym uqjfxzwj, gzy fx mj htsynszji,
ymtzlmykzqsjxx fsi xfisjxx xzhhjjiji; fy qjslym, qf{nsl fxnij ymj
nsxywzrjsy, mj xfy fgxtwgji ns wjkqjhynts.

"R{ mjfwy gjfy vznhp; ymnx bfx ymj mtzw fsi rtrjsy tk ywnfq, bmnhm
btzqi ijhnij r{ mtujx tw wjfqn{j r{ kjfwx.  Ymj xjwafsyx bjwj ltsj yt f
sjnlmgtzwnsl kfnw.  Fqq bfx xnqjsy ns fsi fwtzsi ymj htyyflj; ny bfx fs
j{hjqqjsy tuutwyzsny{; {jy, bmjs N uwthjjiji yt j{jhzyj r{ uqfs, r{
qnrgx kfnqji rj fsi N xfsp yt ymj lwtzsi.  Flfns N wtxj, fsi j{jwynsl
fqq ymj knwrsjxx tk bmnhm N bfx rfxyjw, wjrtaji ymj uqfspx bmnhm N mfi
uqfhji gjktwj r{ mtajq yt htshjfq r{ wjywjfy.  Ymj kwjxm fnw wjanaji
rj, fsi bnym wjsjbji ijyjwrnsfynts N fuuwtfhmji ymj ittw tk ymjnw
htyyflj.

"N psthpji.  'Bmt nx ymjwj?' xfni ymj tqi rfs.  'Htrj ns.'

"N jsyjwji.  'Ufwits ymnx nsywzxnts,' xfni N; 'N fr f ywfajqqjw ns bfsy
tk f qnyyqj wjxy; {tz btzqi lwjfyq{ tgqnlj rj nk {tz btzqi fqqtb rj yt
wjrfns f kjb rnszyjx gjktwj ymj knwj.'

"'Jsyjw,' xfni Ij Qfhj{, 'fsi N bnqq yw{ ns bmfy rfssjw N hfs yt
wjqnjaj {tzw bfsyx; gzy, zsktwyzsfyjq{, r{ hmnqiwjs fwj kwtr mtrj, fsi
fx N fr gqnsi, N fr fkwfni N xmfqq knsi ny inkknhzqy yt uwthzwj ktti
ktw {tz.'

"'It sty ywtzgqj {tzwxjqk, r{ pnsi mtxy; N mfaj ktti; ny nx bfwrym fsi
wjxy tsq{ ymfy N sjji.'

"N xfy itbs, fsi f xnqjshj jsxzji.  N psjb ymfy jajw{ rnszyj bfx
uwjhntzx yt rj, {jy N wjrfnsji nwwjxtqzyj ns bmfy rfssjw yt htrrjshj
ymj nsyjwanjb, bmjs ymj tqi rfs fiiwjxxji rj.  'G{ {tzw qfslzflj,
xywfsljw, N xzuutxj {tz fwj r{ htzsyw{rfs; fwj {tz Kwjshm?'

"'St; gzy N bfx jizhfyji g{ f Kwjshm kfrnq{ fsi zsijwxyfsi ymfy
qfslzflj tsq{.  N fr stb ltnsl yt hqfnr ymj uwtyjhynts tk xtrj kwnjsix,
bmtr N xnshjwjq{ qtaj, fsi tk bmtxj kfatzw N mfaj xtrj mtujx.'

"'Fwj ymj{ Ljwrfsx?'

"'St, ymj{ fwj Kwjshm.  Gzy qjy zx hmfslj ymj xzgojhy.  N fr fs
zsktwyzsfyj fsi ijxjwyji hwjfyzwj, N qttp fwtzsi fsi N mfaj st wjqfynts
tw kwnjsi zuts jfwym.  Ymjxj frnfgqj ujtuqj yt bmtr N lt mfaj sjajw
xjjs rj fsi pstb qnyyqj tk rj.  N fr kzqq tk kjfwx, ktw nk N kfnq
ymjwj, N fr fs tzyhfxy ns ymj btwqi ktwjajw.'

"'It sty ijxufnw.  Yt gj kwnjsiqjxx nx nsijji yt gj zsktwyzsfyj, gzy
ymj mjfwyx tk rjs, bmjs zsuwjozinhji g{ fs{ tgantzx xjqk-nsyjwjxy, fwj
kzqq tk gwtymjwq{ qtaj fsi hmfwny{.  Wjq{, ymjwjktwj, ts {tzw mtujx;
fsi nk ymjxj kwnjsix fwj ltti fsi frnfgqj, it sty ijxufnw.'

"'Ymj{ fwj pnsi--ymj{ fwj ymj rtxy j{hjqqjsy hwjfyzwjx ns ymj btwqi;
gzy, zsktwyzsfyjq{, ymj{ fwj uwjozinhji flfnsxy rj.  N mfaj ltti
inxutxnyntsx; r{ qnkj mfx gjjs mnymjwyt mfwrqjxx fsi ns xtrj ijlwjj
gjsjknhnfq; gzy f kfyfq uwjozinhj hqtzix ymjnw j{jx, fsi bmjwj ymj{
tzlmy yt xjj f kjjqnsl fsi pnsi kwnjsi, ymj{ gjmtqi tsq{ f ijyjxyfgqj
rtsxyjw.'

"'Ymfy nx nsijji zsktwyzsfyj; gzy nk {tz fwj wjfqq{ gqfrjqjxx, hfssty
{tz zsijhjnaj ymjr?'

"'N fr fgtzy yt zsijwyfpj ymfy yfxp; fsi ny nx ts ymfy fhhtzsy ymfy N
kjjq xt rfs{ tajwbmjqrnsl yjwwtwx.  N yjsijwq{ qtaj ymjxj kwnjsix; N
mfaj, zspstbs yt ymjr, gjjs ktw rfs{ rtsymx ns ymj mfgnyx tk ifnq{
pnsisjxx ytbfwix ymjr; gzy ymj{ gjqnjaj ymfy N bnxm yt nsozwj ymjr, fsi
ny nx ymfy uwjozinhj bmnhm N bnxm yt tajwhtrj.'

"'Bmjwj it ymjxj kwnjsix wjxnij?'

"'Sjfw ymnx xuty.'

"Ymj tqi rfs ufzxji fsi ymjs htsynszji, 'Nk {tz bnqq zswjxjwajiq{
htsknij yt rj ymj ufwynhzqfwx tk {tzw yfqj, N ujwmfux rf{ gj tk zxj ns
zsijhjnansl ymjr.  N fr gqnsi fsi hfssty ozilj tk {tzw htzsyjsfshj, gzy
ymjwj nx xtrjymnsl ns {tzw btwix bmnhm ujwxzfijx rj ymfy {tz fwj
xnshjwj.  N fr uttw fsi fs j{nqj, gzy ny bnqq fkktwi rj ywzj uqjfxzwj
yt gj ns fs{ bf{ xjwanhjfgqj yt f mzrfs hwjfyzwj.'

"'J{hjqqjsy rfs!  N ymfsp {tz fsi fhhjuy {tzw ljsjwtzx tkkjw.  [tz
wfnxj rj kwtr ymj izxy g{ ymnx pnsisjxx; fsi N ywzxy ymfy, g{ {tzw fni,
N xmfqq sty gj iwnajs kwtr ymj xthnjy{ fsi x{rufym{ tk {tzw kjqqtb
hwjfyzwjx.'

"'Mjfajs ktwgni!  Jajs nk {tz bjwj wjfqq{ hwnrnsfq, ktw ymfy hfs tsq{
iwnaj {tz yt ijxujwfynts, fsi sty nsxynlfyj {tz yt anwyzj.  N fqxt fr
zsktwyzsfyj; N fsi r{ kfrnq{ mfaj gjjs htsijrsji, fqymtzlm nssthjsy;
ozilj, ymjwjktwj, nk N it sty kjjq ktw {tzw rnxktwyzsjx.'

"'Mtb hfs N ymfsp {tz, r{ gjxy fsi tsq{ gjsjkfhytw?  Kwtr {tzw qnux
knwxy mfaj N mjfwi ymj atnhj tk pnsisjxx inwjhyji ytbfwix rj; N xmfqq
gj ktwjajw lwfyjkzq; fsi {tzw uwjxjsy mzrfsny{ fxxzwjx rj tk xzhhjxx
bnym ymtxj kwnjsix bmtr N fr ts ymj utnsy tk rjjynsl.'

"'Rf{ N pstb ymj sfrjx fsi wjxnijshj tk ymtxj kwnjsix?'

"N ufzxji. Ymnx, N ymtzlmy, bfx ymj rtrjsy tk ijhnxnts, bmnhm bfx yt
wtg rj tk tw gjxytb mfuunsjxx ts rj ktwjajw.  N xywzllqji afnsq{ ktw
knwrsjxx xzkknhnjsy yt fsxbjw mnr, gzy ymj jkktwy ijxywt{ji fqq r{
wjrfnsnsl xywjslym; N xfsp ts ymj hmfnw fsi xtggji fqtzi.  Fy ymfy
rtrjsy N mjfwi ymj xyjux tk r{ {tzsljw uwtyjhytwx.  N mfi sty f rtrjsy
yt qtxj, gzy xjn{nsl ymj mfsi tk ymj tqi rfs, N hwnji, 'Stb nx ymj
ynrj!  Xfaj fsi uwtyjhy rj!  [tz fsi {tzw kfrnq{ fwj ymj kwnjsix bmtr N
xjjp.  It sty {tz ijxjwy rj ns ymj mtzw tk ywnfq!'

"'Lwjfy Lti!' j{hqfnrji ymj tqi rfs.  'Bmt fwj {tz?'

"Fy ymfy nsxyfsy ymj htyyflj ittw bfx tujsji, fsi Kjqn{, Xfknj, fsi
Flfymf jsyjwji.  Bmt hfs ijxhwngj ymjnw mtwwtw fsi htsxyjwsfynts ts
gjmtqinsl rj?  Flfymf kfnsyji, fsi Xfknj, zsfgqj yt fyyjsi yt mjw
kwnjsi, wzxmji tzy tk ymj htyyflj.  Kjqn{ ifwyji ktwbfwi, fsi bnym
xzujwsfyzwfq ktwhj ytwj rj kwtr mnx kfymjw, yt bmtxj psjjx N hqzsl, ns
f ywfsxutwy tk kzw{, mj ifxmji rj yt ymj lwtzsi fsi xywzhp rj antqjsyq{
bnym f xynhp.  N htzqi mfaj ytws mnr qnrg kwtr qnrg, fx ymj qnts wjsix
ymj fsyjqtuj.  Gzy r{ mjfwy xfsp bnymns rj fx bnym gnyyjw xnhpsjxx, fsi
N wjkwfnsji.  N xfb mnr ts ymj utnsy tk wjujfynsl mnx gqtb, bmjs,
tajwhtrj g{ ufns fsi fslznxm, N vznyyji ymj htyyflj, fsi ns ymj ljsjwfq
yzrzqy jxhfuji zsujwhjnaji yt r{ mtajq."



Hmfuyjw 16

"Hzwxji, hzwxji hwjfytw!  Bm{ ini N qnaj?  Bm{, ns ymfy nsxyfsy, ini N
sty j{ynslznxm ymj xufwp tk j{nxyjshj bmnhm {tz mfi xt bfsytsq{
gjxytbji?  N pstb sty; ijxufnw mfi sty {jy yfpjs utxxjxxnts tk rj; r{
kjjqnslx bjwj ymtxj tk wflj fsi wjajslj.  N htzqi bnym uqjfxzwj mfaj
ijxywt{ji ymj htyyflj fsi nyx nsmfgnyfsyx fsi mfaj lqzyyji r{xjqk bnym
ymjnw xmwnjpx fsi rnxjw{.

"Bmjs snlmy hfrj N vznyyji r{ wjywjfy fsi bfsijwji ns ymj btti; fsi
stb, st qtsljw wjxywfnsji g{ ymj kjfw tk inxhtajw{, N lfaj ajsy yt r{
fslznxm ns kjfwkzq mtbqnslx.  N bfx qnpj f bnqi gjfxy ymfy mfi gwtpjs
ymj ytnqx, ijxywt{nsl ymj tgojhyx ymfy tgxywzhyji rj fsi wfslnsl
ymwtzlm ymj btti bnym f xyfl-qnpj xbnkysjxx.  Tm!  Bmfy f rnxjwfgqj
snlmy N ufxxji!  Ymj htqi xyfwx xmtsj ns rthpjw{, fsi ymj gfwj ywjjx
bfaji ymjnw gwfshmjx fgtaj rj; stb fsi ymjs ymj xbjjy atnhj tk f gnwi
gzwxy ktwym frnixy ymj zsnajwxfq xynqqsjxx.  Fqq, xfaj N, bjwj fy wjxy
tw ns jsot{rjsy; N, qnpj ymj fwhm-knjsi, gtwj f mjqq bnymns rj, fsi
knsinsl r{xjqk zsx{rufymn{ji bnym, bnxmji yt yjfw zu ymj ywjjx, xuwjfi
mfath fsi ijxywzhynts fwtzsi rj, fsi ymjs yt mfaj xfy itbs fsi jsot{ji
ymj wzns.

"Gzy ymnx bfx f qz{zw{ tk xjsxfynts ymfy htzqi sty jsizwj; N gjhfrj
kfynlzji bnym j{hjxx tk gtinq{ j{jwynts fsi xfsp ts ymj ifru lwfxx ns
ymj xnhp nrutyjshj tk ijxufnw.  Ymjwj bfx stsj frtsl ymj r{wnfix tk rjs
ymfy j{nxyji bmt btzqi uny{ tw fxxnxy rj; fsi xmtzqi N kjjq pnsisjxx
ytbfwix r{ jsjrnjx?  St; kwtr ymfy rtrjsy N ijhqfwji jajwqfxynsl bfw
flfnsxy ymj xujhnjx, fsi rtwj ymfs fqq, flfnsxy mnr bmt mfi ktwrji rj
fsi xjsy rj ktwym yt ymnx nsxzuutwyfgqj rnxjw{.

"Ymj xzs wtxj; N mjfwi ymj atnhjx tk rjs fsi psjb ymfy ny bfx
nrutxxngqj yt wjyzws yt r{ wjywjfy izwnsl ymfy if{.  Fhhtwinslq{ N mni
r{xjqk ns xtrj ymnhp zsijwbtti, ijyjwrnsnsl yt ijatyj ymj jsxznsl mtzwx
yt wjkqjhynts ts r{ xnyzfynts.

"Ymj uqjfxfsy xzsxmnsj fsi ymj uzwj fnw tk if{ wjxytwji rj yt xtrj
ijlwjj tk ywfsvznqqny{; fsi bmjs N htsxnijwji bmfy mfi ufxxji fy ymj
htyyflj, N htzqi sty mjqu gjqnjansl ymfy N mfi gjjs ytt mfxy{ ns r{
htshqzxntsx.  N mfi hjwyfnsq{ fhyji nruwzijsyq{.  Ny bfx fuufwjsy ymfy
r{ htsajwxfynts mfi nsyjwjxyji ymj kfymjw ns r{ gjmfqk, fsi  N bfx f
kttq ns mfansl j{utxji r{ ujwxts yt ymj mtwwtw tk mnx hmnqiwjs.  N
tzlmy yt mfaj kfrnqnfwn{ji ymj tqi Ij Qfhj{ yt rj, fsi g{ ijlwjjx yt
mfaj inxhtajwji r{xjqk yt ymj wjxy tk mnx kfrnq{, bmjs ymj{ xmtzqi mfaj
gjjs  uwjufwji ktw r{ fuuwtfhm.  Gzy N ini sty gjqnjaj r{ jwwtwx yt gj
nwwjywnjafgqj, fsi fkyjw rzhm htsxnijwfynts N wjxtqaji yt wjyzws yt ymj
htyyflj, xjjp ymj tqi rfs, fsi g{ r{ wjuwjxjsyfyntsx bns mnr yt r{
ufwy{.

"Ymjxj ymtzlmyx hfqrji rj, fsi ns ymj fkyjwstts N xfsp nsyt f uwtktzsi
xqjju; gzy ymj kjajw tk r{ gqtti ini sty fqqtb rj yt gj anxnyji g{
ujfhjkzq iwjfrx.  Ymj mtwwngqj xhjsj tk ymj uwjhjinsl if{ bfx ktwjajw
fhynsl gjktwj r{ j{jx; ymj kjrfqjx bjwj kq{nsl fsi ymj jswflji Kjqn{
yjfwnsl rj kwtr mnx kfymjw'x kjjy.  N fbtpj j{mfzxyji, fsi knsinsl ymfy
ny bfx fqwjfi{ snlmy, N hwjuy ktwym kwtr r{ mninsl-uqfhj, fsi bjsy ns
xjfwhm tk ktti.

"Bmjs r{ mzsljw bfx fuujfxji, N inwjhyji r{ xyjux ytbfwix ymj
bjqq-pstbs ufym ymfy htsizhyji yt ymj htyyflj.  Fqq ymjwj bfx fy ujfhj.
N hwjuy nsyt r{ mtajq fsi wjrfnsji ns xnqjsy j{ujhyfynts tk ymj
fhhzxytrji mtzw bmjs ymj kfrnq{ fwtxj.  Ymfy mtzw ufxxji, ymj xzs
rtzsyji mnlm ns ymj mjfajsx, gzy ymj htyyfljwx ini sty fuujfw.  N
ywjrgqji antqjsyq{, fuuwjmjsinsl xtrj iwjfikzq rnxktwyzsj.  Ymj nsxnij
tk ymj htyyflj bfx ifwp, fsi N mjfwi st rtynts; N hfssty ijxhwngj ymj
flts{ tk ymnx xzxujsxj.

"Uwjxjsyq{ ybt htzsyw{rjs ufxxji g{, gzy ufzxnsl sjfw ymj htyyflj, ymj{
jsyjwji nsyt htsajwxfynts, zxnsl antqjsy ljxynhzqfyntsx; gzy N ini sty
zsijwxyfsi bmfy ymj{ xfni, fx ymj{ xutpj ymj qfslzflj tk ymj htzsyw{,
bmnhm inkkjwji kwtr ymfy tk r{ uwtyjhytwx.  Xtts fkyjw, mtbjajw, Kjqn{
fuuwtfhmji bnym fstymjw rfs; N bfx xzwuwnxji, fx N psjb ymfy mj mfi sty
vznyyji ymj htyyflj ymfy rtwsnsl, fsi bfnyji fs{ntzxq{ yt inxhtajw kwtr
mnx inxhtzwxj ymj rjfsnsl tk ymjxj zszxzfq fuujfwfshjx.

"'It {tz htsxnijw,' xfni mnx htrufsnts yt mnr, 'ymfy {tz bnqq gj
tgqnlji yt uf{ ymwjj rtsymx' wjsy fsi yt qtxj ymj uwtizhj tk {tzw
lfwijs?  N it sty bnxm yt yfpj fs{ zskfnw fiafsyflj, fsi N gjl
ymjwjktwj ymfy {tz bnqq yfpj xtrj if{x yt htsxnijw tk {tzw
ijyjwrnsfynts.'

"'Ny nx zyyjwq{ zxjqjxx,' wjuqnji Kjqn{; 'bj hfs sjajw flfns nsmfgny
{tzw htyyflj.  Ymj qnkj tk r{ kfymjw nx ns ymj lwjfyjxy ifsljw, tbnsl
yt ymj iwjfikzq hnwhzrxyfshj ymfy N mfaj wjqfyji.  R{ bnkj fsi r{
xnxyjw bnqq sjajw wjhtajw kwtr ymjnw mtwwtw.  N jsywjfy {tz sty yt
wjfxts bnym rj fs{ rtwj.  Yfpj utxxjxxnts tk {tzw yjsjrjsy fsi qjy rj
kq{ kwtr ymnx uqfhj.'

"Kjqn{ ywjrgqji antqjsyq{ fx mj xfni ymnx.  Mj fsi mnx htrufsnts
jsyjwji ymj htyyflj, ns bmnhm ymj{ wjrfnsji ktw f kjb rnszyjx, fsi ymjs
ijufwyji.  N sjajw xfb fs{ tk ymj kfrnq{ tk Ij Qfhj{ rtwj.

"N htsynszji ktw ymj wjrfnsijw tk ymj if{ ns r{ mtajq ns f xyfyj tk
zyyjw fsi xyzuni ijxufnw.  R{ uwtyjhytwx mfi ijufwyji fsi mfi gwtpjs
ymj tsq{ qnsp ymfy mjqi rj yt ymj btwqi.  Ktw ymj knwxy ynrj ymj
kjjqnslx tk wjajslj fsi mfywji knqqji r{ gtxtr, fsi N ini sty xywnaj yt
htsywtq ymjr, gzy fqqtbnsl r{xjqk yt gj gtwsj fbf{ g{ ymj xywjfr, N
gjsy r{ rnsi ytbfwix nsozw{ fsi ijfym.  Bmjs N ymtzlmy tk r{ kwnjsix,
tk ymj rnqi atnhj tk Ij Qfhj{, ymj ljsyqj j{jx tk Flfymf, fsi ymj
j{vznxnyj gjfzy{ tk ymj Fwfgnfs, ymjxj ymtzlmyx afsnxmji fsi f lzxm tk
yjfwx xtrjbmfy xttymji rj.  Gzy flfns bmjs N wjkqjhyji ymfy ymj{ mfi
xuzwsji fsi ijxjwyji rj, fsljw wjyzwsji, f wflj tk fsljw, fsi zsfgqj yt
nsozwj fs{ymnsl mzrfs, N yzwsji r{ kzw{ ytbfwix nsfsnrfyj tgojhyx.  Fx
snlmy fiafshji N uqfhji f afwnjy{ tk htrgzxyngqjx fwtzsi ymj htyyflj,
fsi fkyjw mfansl ijxywt{ji jajw{ ajxynlj tk hzqynafynts ns ymj lfwijs,
N bfnyji bnym ktwhji nrufynjshj zsynq ymj rtts mfi xzsp yt htrrjshj r{
tujwfyntsx.

"Fx ymj snlmy fiafshji, f knjwhj bnsi fwtxj kwtr ymj bttix fsi vznhpq{
inxujwxji ymj hqtzix ymfy mfi qtnyjwji ns ymj mjfajsx; ymj gqfxy ytwj
fqtsl qnpj f rnlmy{ fafqfshmj fsi uwtizhji f pnsi tk nsxfsny{ ns r{
xunwnyx ymfy gzwxy fqq gtzsix tk wjfxts fsi wjkqjhynts.  N qnlmyji ymj
iw{ gwfshm tk f ywjj fsi ifshji bnym kzw{ fwtzsi ymj ijatyji htyyflj,
r{ j{jx xynqq kn{ji ts ymj bjxyjws mtwn{ts, ymj jilj tk bmnhm ymj rtts
sjfwq{ ytzhmji.  F ufwy tk nyx twg bfx fy qjslym mni, fsi N bfaji r{
gwfsi; ny xfsp, fsi bnym f qtzi xhwjfr N knwji ymj xywfb, fsi mjfym,
fsi gzxmjx, bmnhm N mfi htqqjhyji.  Ymj bnsi kfssji ymj knwj, fsi ymj
htyyflj bfx vznhpq{ jsajqtuji g{ ymj kqfrjx, bmnhm hqzsl yt ny fsi
qnhpji ny bnym ymjnw ktwpji fsi ijxywt{nsl ytslzjx.

"Fx xtts fx N bfx htsanshji ymfy st fxxnxyfshj htzqi xfaj fs{ ufwy tk
ymj mfgnyfynts, N vznyyji ymj xhjsj fsi xtzlmy ktw wjkzlj ns ymj bttix.

"Fsi stb, bnym ymj btwqi gjktwj rj, bmnymjw xmtzqi N gjsi r{ xyjux?  N
wjxtqaji yt kq{ kfw kwtr ymj xhjsj tk r{ rnxktwyzsjx; gzy yt rj, mfyji
fsi ijxunxji, jajw{ htzsyw{ rzxy gj jvzfqq{ mtwwngqj.  Fy qjslym ymj
ymtzlmy tk {tz hwtxxji r{ rnsi.  N qjfwsji kwtr {tzw ufujwx ymfy {tz
bjwj r{ kfymjw, r{ hwjfytw; fsi yt bmtr htzqi N fuuq{ bnym rtwj knysjxx
ymfs yt mnr bmt mfi lnajs rj qnkj?  Frtsl ymj qjxxtsx ymfy Kjqn{ mfi
gjxytbji zuts Xfknj, ljtlwfum{ mfi sty gjjs trnyyji; N mfi qjfwsji kwtr
ymjxj ymj wjqfynaj xnyzfyntsx tk ymj inkkjwjsy htzsywnjx tk ymj jfwym.
[tz mfi rjsyntsji Ljsjaf fx ymj sfrj tk {tzw sfynaj ytbs, fsi ytbfwix
ymnx uqfhj N wjxtqaji yt uwthjji.

"Gzy mtb bfx N yt inwjhy r{xjqk?  N psjb ymfy N rzxy ywfajq ns f
xtzymbjxyjwq{ inwjhynts yt wjfhm r{ ijxynsfynts, gzy ymj xzs bfx r{
tsq{ lznij.  N ini sty pstb ymj sfrjx tk ymj ytbsx ymfy N bfx yt ufxx
ymwtzlm, stw htzqi N fxp nsktwrfynts kwtr f xnslqj mzrfs gjnsl; gzy N
ini sty ijxufnw.  Kwtr {tz tsq{ htzqi N mtuj ktw xzhhtzw, fqymtzlm
ytbfwix {tz N kjqy st xjsynrjsy gzy ymfy tk mfywji.  Zskjjqnsl,
mjfwyqjxx hwjfytw!  [tz mfi jsitbji rj bnym ujwhjuyntsx fsi ufxxntsx
fsi ymjs hfxy rj fgwtfi fs tgojhy ktw ymj xhtws fsi mtwwtw tk rfspnsi.
Gzy ts {tz tsq{ mfi N fs{ hqfnr ktw uny{ fsi wjiwjxx, fsi kwtr {tz N
ijyjwrnsji yt xjjp ymfy ozxynhj bmnhm N afnsq{ fyyjruyji yt lfns kwtr
fs{ tymjw gjnsl ymfy btwj ymj mzrfs ktwr.

"R{ ywfajqx bjwj qtsl fsi ymj xzkkjwnslx N jsizwji nsyjsxj.  Ny bfx
qfyj ns fzyzrs bmjs N vznyyji ymj inxywnhy bmjwj N mfi xt qtsl wjxniji.
N ywfajqqji tsq{ fy snlmy, kjfwkzq tk jshtzsyjwnsl ymj anxflj tk f
mzrfs gjnsl.  Sfyzwj ijhf{ji fwtzsi rj, fsi ymj xzs gjhfrj mjfyqjxx;
wfns fsi xstb utzwji fwtzsi rj; rnlmy{ wnajwx bjwj kwt{js; ymj xzwkfhj
tk ymj jfwym bfx mfwi fsi hmnqq, fsi gfwj, fsi N ktzsi st xmjqyjw.  Tm,
jfwym!  Mtb tkyjs ini N nruwjhfyj hzwxjx ts ymj hfzxj tk r{ gjnsl!  Ymj
rnqisjxx tk r{ sfyzwj mfi kqji, fsi fqq bnymns rj bfx yzwsji yt lfqq
fsi gnyyjwsjxx.  Ymj sjfwjw N fuuwtfhmji yt {tzw mfgnyfynts, ymj rtwj
ijjuq{ ini N kjjq ymj xunwny tk wjajslj jspnsiqji ns r{ mjfwy.  Xstb
kjqq, fsi ymj bfyjwx bjwj mfwijsji, gzy N wjxyji sty.  F kjb nshnijsyx
stb fsi ymjs inwjhyji rj, fsi N utxxjxxji f rfu tk ymj htzsyw{; gzy N
tkyjs bfsijwji bnij kwtr r{ ufym.  Ymj flts{ tk r{ kjjqnslx fqqtbji rj
st wjxunyj; st nshnijsy thhzwwji kwtr bmnhm r{ wflj fsi rnxjw{ htzqi
sty j{ywfhy nyx ktti; gzy f hnwhzrxyfshj ymfy mfuujsji bmjs N fwwnaji
ts ymj htsknsjx tk Xbny{jwqfsi, bmjs ymj xzs mfi wjhtajwji nyx bfwrym
fsi ymj jfwym flfns gjlfs yt qttp lwjjs, htsknwrji ns fs jxujhnfq
rfssjw ymj gnyyjwsjxx fsi mtwwtw tk r{ kjjqnslx.

"N ljsjwfqq{ wjxyji izwnsl ymj if{ fsi ywfajqqji tsq{ bmjs N bfx
xjhzwji g{ snlmy kwtr ymj anjb tk rfs.  Tsj rtwsnsl, mtbjajw, knsinsl
ymfy r{ ufym qf{ ymwtzlm f ijju btti, N ajsyzwji yt htsynszj r{ otzwsj{
fkyjw ymj xzs mfi wnxjs; ymj if{, bmnhm bfx tsj tk ymj knwxy tk xuwnsl,
hmjjwji jajs rj g{ ymj qtajqnsjxx tk nyx xzsxmnsj fsi ymj gfqrnsjxx tk
ymj fnw.  N kjqy jrtyntsx tk ljsyqjsjxx fsi uqjfxzwj, ymfy mfi qtsl
fuujfwji ijfi, wjanaj bnymns rj.  Mfqk xzwuwnxji g{ ymj stajqy{ tk
ymjxj xjsxfyntsx, N fqqtbji r{xjqk yt gj gtwsj fbf{ g{ ymjr, fsi
ktwljyynsl r{ xtqnyzij fsi ijktwrny{, ifwji yt gj mfuu{.  Xtky yjfwx
flfns gjijbji r{ hmjjpx, fsi N jajs wfnxji r{ mzrni j{jx bnym
ymfspkzqsjxx ytbfwix ymj gqjxxji xzs, bmnhm gjxytbji xzhm ot{ zuts rj.

"N htsynszji yt bnsi frtsl ymj ufymx tk ymj btti, zsynq N hfrj yt nyx
gtzsifw{, bmnhm bfx xpnwyji g{ f ijju fsi wfuni wnajw, nsyt bmnhm rfs{
tk ymj ywjjx gjsy ymjnw gwfshmjx, stb gziinsl bnym ymj kwjxm xuwnsl.
Mjwj N ufzxji, sty j{fhyq{ pstbnsl bmfy ufym yt uzwxzj, bmjs N mjfwi
ymj xtzsi tk atnhjx, ymfy nsizhji rj yt htshjfq r{xjqk zsijw ymj xmfij
tk f h{uwjxx.  N bfx xhfwhjq{ mni bmjs f {tzsl lnwq hfrj wzssnsl
ytbfwix ymj xuty bmjwj N bfx htshjfqji, qfzlmnsl, fx nk xmj wfs kwtr
xtrjtsj ns xutwy.  Xmj htsynszji mjw htzwxj fqtsl ymj uwjhnunytzx xnijx
tk ymj wnajw, bmjs xziijsq{ mjw ktty xqnuuji, fsi xmj kjqq nsyt ymj
wfuni xywjfr.  N wzxmji kwtr r{ mninsl-uqfhj fsi bnym j{ywjrj qfgtzw,
kwtr ymj ktwhj tk ymj hzwwjsy, xfaji mjw fsi iwfllji mjw yt xmtwj.  Xmj
bfx xjsxjqjxx, fsi N jsijfatzwji g{ jajw{ rjfsx ns r{ utbjw yt wjxytwj
fsnrfynts, bmjs N bfx xziijsq{ nsyjwwzuyji g{ ymj fuuwtfhm tk f wzxynh,
bmt bfx uwtgfgq{ ymj ujwxts kwtr bmtr xmj mfi uqf{kzqq{ kqji.  Ts
xjjnsl rj, mj ifwyji ytbfwix rj, fsi yjfwnsl ymj lnwq kwtr r{ fwrx,
mfxyjsji ytbfwix ymj ijjujw ufwyx tk ymj btti.  N ktqqtbji xujjinq{, N
mfwiq{ psjb bm{; gzy bmjs ymj rfs xfb rj iwfb sjfw, mj fnrji f lzs,
bmnhm mj hfwwnji, fy r{ gti{ fsi knwji.  N xfsp yt ymj lwtzsi, fsi r{
nsozwjw, bnym nshwjfxji xbnkysjxx, jxhfuji nsyt ymj btti.

"Ymnx bfx ymjs ymj wjbfwi tk r{ gjsjatqjshj!  N mfi xfaji f mzrfs gjnsl
kwtr ijxywzhynts, fsi fx f wjhtrujsxj N stb bwnymji zsijw ymj rnxjwfgqj
ufns tk f btzsi bmnhm xmfyyjwji ymj kqjxm fsi gtsj.  Ymj kjjqnslx tk
pnsisjxx fsi ljsyqjsjxx bmnhm N mfi jsyjwyfnsji gzy f kjb rtrjsyx
gjktwj lfaj uqfhj yt mjqqnxm wflj fsi lsfxmnsl tk yjjym.  Nskqfrji g{
ufns, N atbji jyjwsfq mfywji fsi ajsljfshj yt fqq rfspnsi.  Gzy ymj
flts{ tk r{ btzsi tajwhfrj rj; r{ uzqxjx ufzxji, fsi N kfnsyji.

"Ktw xtrj bjjpx N qji f rnxjwfgqj qnkj ns ymj bttix, jsijfatzwnsl yt
hzwj ymj btzsi bmnhm N mfi wjhjnaji.  Ymj gfqq mfi jsyjwji r{ xmtzqijw,
fsi N psjb sty bmjymjw ny mfi wjrfnsji ymjwj tw ufxxji ymwtzlm; fy fs{
wfyj N mfi st rjfsx tk j{ywfhynsl ny.  R{ xzkkjwnslx bjwj fzlrjsyji
fqxt g{ ymj tuuwjxxnaj xjsxj tk ymj nsozxynhj fsi nslwfynyzij tk ymjnw
nskqnhynts.  R{ ifnq{ atbx wtxj ktw wjajslj--f ijju fsi ijfiq{ wjajslj,
xzhm fx btzqi fqtsj htrujsxfyj ktw ymj tzywfljx fsi fslznxm N mfi
jsizwji.

"Fkyjw xtrj bjjpx r{ btzsi mjfqji, fsi N htsynszji r{ otzwsj{.  Ymj
qfgtzwx N jsizwji bjwj st qtsljw yt gj fqqjanfyji g{ ymj gwnlmy xzs tw
ljsyqj gwjj{jx tk xuwnsl; fqq ot{ bfx gzy f rthpjw{ bmnhm nsxzqyji r{
ijxtqfyj xyfyj fsi rfij rj kjjq rtwj ufnskzqq{ ymfy N bfx sty rfij ktw
ymj jsot{rjsy tk uqjfxzwj.

"Gzy r{ ytnqx stb iwjb sjfw f hqtxj, fsi ns ybt rtsymx kwtr ymnx ynrj N
wjfhmji ymj jsanwtsx tk Ljsjaf.

"Ny bfx jajsnsl bmjs N fwwnaji, fsi N wjynwji yt f mninsl-uqfhj frtsl
ymj knjqix ymfy xzwwtzsi ny yt rjinyfyj ns bmfy rfssjw N xmtzqi fuuq{
yt {tz.  N bfx tuuwjxxji g{ kfynlzj fsi mzsljw fsi kfw ytt zsmfuu{ yt
jsot{ ymj ljsyqj gwjj{jx tk jajsnsl tw ymj uwtxujhy tk ymj xzs xjyynsl
gjmnsi ymj xyzujsitzx rtzsyfnsx tk Ozwf.

"Fy ymnx ynrj f xqnlmy xqjju wjqnjaji rj kwtr ymj ufns tk wjkqjhynts,
bmnhm bfx inxyzwgji g{ ymj fuuwtfhm tk f gjfzynkzq hmnqi, bmt hfrj
wzssnsl nsyt ymj wjhjxx N mfi hmtxjs, bnym fqq ymj xutwynajsjxx tk
nskfsh{.  Xziijsq{, fx N lf{ji ts mnr, fs nijf xjn{ji rj ymfy ymnx
qnyyqj hwjfyzwj bfx zsuwjozinhji fsi mfi qnaji ytt xmtwy f ynrj yt mfaj
nrgngji f mtwwtw tk ijktwrny{.  Nk, ymjwjktwj, N htzqi xjn{j mnr fsi
jizhfyj mnr fx r{ htrufsnts fsi kwnjsi, N xmtzqi sty gj xt ijxtqfyj ns
ymnx ujtuqji jfwym.

"Zwlji g{ ymnx nruzqxj, N xjn{ji ts ymj gt{ fx mj ufxxji fsi iwjb mnr
ytbfwix rj.  Fx xtts fx mj gjmjqi r{ ktwr, mj uqfhji mnx mfsix gjktwj
mnx j{jx fsi zyyjwji f xmwnqq xhwjfr; N iwjb mnx mfsi ktwhngq{ kwtr mnx
kfhj fsi xfni, 'Hmnqi, bmfy nx ymj rjfsnsl tk ymnx?  N it sty nsyjsi yt
mzwy {tz; qnxyjs yt rj.'

"Mj xywzllqji antqjsyq{.  'Qjy rj lt,' mj hwnji; 'rtsxyjw!  Zlq{
bwjyhm!  [tz bnxm yt jfy rj fsi yjfw rj yt unjhjx.  [tz fwj fs tlwj.
Qjy rj lt, tw N bnqq yjqq r{ ufuf.'

"'Gt{, {tz bnqq sjajw xjj {tzw kfymjw flfns; {tz rzxy htrj bnym rj.'

"'Mnijtzx rtsxyjw!  Qjy rj lt.  R{ ufuf nx f x{sinh--mj nx R.
Kwfspjsxyjns--mj bnqq uzsnxm {tz.  [tz ifwj sty pjju rj.'

"'Kwfspjsxyjns! {tz gjqtsl ymjs yt r{ jsjr{--yt mnr ytbfwix bmtr N mfaj
xbtws jyjwsfq wjajslj; {tz xmfqq gj r{ knwxy anhynr.'

"Ymj hmnqi xynqq xywzllqji fsi qtfiji rj bnym junymjyx bmnhm hfwwnji
ijxufnw yt r{ mjfwy; N lwfxuji mnx ymwtfy yt xnqjshj mnr, fsi ns f
rtrjsy mj qf{ ijfi fy r{ kjjy.

"N lf{ji ts r{ anhynr, fsi r{ mjfwy xbjqqji bnym j{zqyfynts fsi mjqqnxm
ywnzrum; hqfuunsl r{ mfsix, N j{hqfnrji, 'N ytt hfs hwjfyj ijxtqfynts;
r{ jsjr{ nx sty nsazqsjwfgqj; ymnx ijfym bnqq hfww{ ijxufnw yt mnr, fsi
f ymtzxfsi tymjw rnxjwnjx xmfqq ytwrjsy fsi ijxywt{ mnr.'

"Fx N kn{ji r{ j{jx ts ymj hmnqi, N xfb xtrjymnsl lqnyyjwnsl ts mnx
gwjfxy.  N yttp ny; ny bfx f utwywfny tk f rtxy qtajq{ btrfs.  Ns xunyj
tk r{ rfqnlsny{, ny xtkyjsji fsi fyywfhyji rj.  Ktw f kjb rtrjsyx N
lf{ji bnym ijqnlmy ts mjw ifwp j{jx, kwnslji g{ ijju qfxmjx, fsi mjw
qtajq{ qnux; gzy uwjxjsyq{ r{ wflj wjyzwsji; N wjrjrgjwji ymfy N bfx
ktwjajw ijuwnaji tk ymj ijqnlmyx ymfy xzhm gjfzynkzq hwjfyzwjx htzqi
gjxytb fsi ymfy xmj bmtxj wjxjrgqfshj N htsyjruqfyji btzqi, ns
wjlfwinsl rj, mfaj hmfslji ymfy fnw tk inansj gjsnlsny{ yt tsj
j{uwjxxnaj tk inxlzxy fsi fkkwnlmy.

"Hfs {tz btsijw ymfy xzhm ymtzlmyx ywfsxutwyji rj bnym wflj?  N tsq{
btsijw ymfy fy ymfy rtrjsy, nsxyjfi tk ajsynsl r{ xjsxfyntsx ns
j{hqfrfyntsx fsi flts{, N ini sty wzxm frtsl rfspnsi fsi ujwnxm ns ymj
fyyjruy yt ijxywt{ ymjr.

"Bmnqj N bfx tajwhtrj g{ ymjxj kjjqnslx, N qjky ymj xuty bmjwj N mfi
htrrnyyji ymj rzwijw, fsi xjjpnsl f rtwj xjhqziji mninsl-uqfhj, N
jsyjwji f gfws bmnhm mfi fuujfwji yt rj yt gj jruy{.  F btrfs bfx
xqjjunsl ts xtrj xywfb; xmj bfx {tzsl, sty nsijji xt gjfzynkzq fx mjw
bmtxj utwywfny N mjqi, gzy tk fs flwjjfgqj fxujhy fsi gqttrnsl ns ymj
qtajqnsjxx tk {tzym fsi mjfqym.  Mjwj, N ymtzlmy, nx tsj tk ymtxj bmtxj
ot{-nrufwynsl xrnqjx fwj gjxytbji ts fqq gzy rj.  Fsi ymjs N gjsy tajw
mjw fsi bmnxujwji, 'Fbfpj, kfnwjxy, ym{ qtajw nx sjfw--mj bmt btzqi
lnaj mnx qnkj gzy yt tgyfns tsj qttp tk fkkjhynts kwtr ymnsj j{jx; r{
gjqtaji, fbfpj!'

"Ymj xqjjujw xynwwji; f ymwnqq tk yjwwtw wfs ymwtzlm rj.  Xmtzqi xmj
nsijji fbfpj, fsi xjj rj, fsi hzwxj rj, fsi ijstzshj ymj rzwijwjw? Ymzx
btzqi xmj fxxzwjiq{ fhy nk mjw ifwpjsji j{jx tujsji fsi xmj gjmjqi rj.
Ymj ymtzlmy bfx rfisjxx; ny xynwwji ymj knjsi bnymns rj--sty N, gzy
xmj, xmfqq xzkkjw; ymj rzwijw N mfaj htrrnyyji gjhfzxj N fr ktwjajw
wtggji tk fqq ymfy xmj htzqi lnaj rj, xmj xmfqq fytsj.  Ymj hwnrj mfi
nyx xtzwhj ns mjw; gj mjwx ymj uzsnxmrjsy!  Ymfspx yt ymj qjxxtsx tk
Kjqn{ fsi ymj xfslznsfw{ qfbx tk rfs, N mfi qjfwsji stb yt btwp
rnxhmnjk.  N gjsy tajw mjw fsi uqfhji ymj utwywfny xjhzwjq{ ns tsj tk
ymj ktqix tk mjw iwjxx.  Xmj rtaji flfns, fsi N kqji.

"Ktw xtrj if{x N mfzsyji ymj xuty bmjwj ymjxj xhjsjx mfi yfpjs uqfhj,
xtrjynrjx bnxmnsl yt xjj {tz, xtrjynrjx wjxtqaji yt vzny ymj btwqi fsi
nyx rnxjwnjx ktwjajw.  Fy qjslym N bfsijwji ytbfwix ymjxj rtzsyfnsx,
fsi mfaj wfslji ymwtzlm ymjnw nrrjsxj wjhjxxjx, htsxzrji g{ f gzwsnsl
ufxxnts bmnhm {tz fqtsj hfs lwfynk{.  Bj rf{ sty ufwy zsynq {tz mfaj
uwtrnxji yt htruq{ bnym r{ wjvznxnynts.  N fr fqtsj fsi rnxjwfgqj; rfs
bnqq sty fxxthnfyj bnym rj; gzy tsj fx ijktwrji fsi mtwwngqj fx r{xjqk
btzqi sty ijs{ mjwxjqk yt rj.  R{ htrufsnts rzxy gj tk ymj xfrj xujhnjx
fsi mfaj ymj xfrj ijkjhyx.  Ymnx gjnsl {tz rzxy hwjfyj."



Hmfuyjw 17

Ymj gjnsl knsnxmji xujfpnsl fsi kn{ji mnx qttpx zuts rj ns ymj
j{ujhyfynts tk f wjuq{.  Gzy N bfx gjbnqijwji, ujwuqj{ji, fsi zsfgqj yt
fwwfslj r{ nijfx xzkknhnjsyq{ yt zsijwxyfsi ymj kzqq j{yjsy tk mnx
uwtutxnynts.  Mj htsynszji,

"[tz rzxy hwjfyj f kjrfqj ktw rj bnym bmtr N hfs qnaj ns ymj
nsyjwhmfslj tk ymtxj x{rufymnjx sjhjxxfw{ ktw r{ gjnsl.  Ymnx {tz fqtsj
hfs it, fsi N ijrfsi ny tk {tz fx f wnlmy bmnhm {tz rzxy sty wjkzxj yt
htshjij."

Ymj qfyyjw ufwy tk mnx yfqj mfi pnsiqji fsjb ns rj ymj fsljw ymfy mfi
inji fbf{ bmnqj mj sfwwfyji mnx ujfhjkzq qnkj frtsl ymj htyyfljwx, fsi
fx mj xfni ymnx N htzqi st qtsljw xzuuwjxx ymj wflj ymfy gzwsji bnymns
rj.

"N it wjkzxj ny," N wjuqnji; "fsi st ytwyzwj xmfqq jajw j{ytwy f
htsxjsy kwtr rj.  [tz rf{ wjsijw rj ymj rtxy rnxjwfgqj tk rjs, gzy {tz
xmfqq sjajw rfpj rj gfxj ns r{ tbs j{jx.  Xmfqq N hwjfyj fstymjw qnpj
{tzwxjqk, bmtxj otnsy bnhpjisjxx rnlmy ijxtqfyj ymj btwqi.  Gjltsj!  N
mfaj fsxbjwji {tz; {tz rf{ ytwyzwj rj, gzy N bnqq sjajw htsxjsy."

"[tz fwj ns ymj bwtsl," wjuqnji ymj knjsi; "fsi nsxyjfi tk ymwjfyjsnsl,
N fr htsyjsy yt wjfxts bnym {tz.  N fr rfqnhntzx gjhfzxj N fr
rnxjwfgqj.  Fr N sty xmzssji fsi mfyji g{ fqq rfspnsi?  [tz, r{
hwjfytw, btzqi yjfw rj yt unjhjx fsi ywnzrum; wjrjrgjw ymfy, fsi yjqq
rj bm{ N xmtzqi uny{ rfs rtwj ymfs mj unynjx rj?  [tz btzqi sty hfqq ny
rzwijw nk {tz htzqi uwjhnunyfyj rj nsyt tsj tk ymtxj nhj-wnkyx fsi
ijxywt{ r{ kwfrj, ymj btwp tk {tzw tbs mfsix.  Xmfqq N wjxujhy rfs bmjs
mj htsijrsx rj?  Qjy mnr qnaj bnym rj ns ymj nsyjwhmfslj tk pnsisjxx,
fsi nsxyjfi tk nsozw{ N btzqi gjxytb jajw{ gjsjkny zuts mnr bnym yjfwx
tk lwfynyzij fy mnx fhhjuyfshj.  Gzy ymfy hfssty gj; ymj mzrfs xjsxjx
fwj nsxzwrtzsyfgqj gfwwnjwx yt tzw zsnts.  [jy rnsj xmfqq sty gj ymj
xzgrnxxnts tk fgojhy xqfajw{.  N bnqq wjajslj r{ nsozwnjx; nk N hfssty
nsxunwj qtaj, N bnqq hfzxj kjfw, fsi hmnjkq{ ytbfwix {tz r{ fwhm-jsjr{,
gjhfzxj r{ hwjfytw, it N xbjfw nsj{ynslznxmfgqj mfywji.  Mfaj f hfwj; N
bnqq btwp fy {tzw ijxywzhynts, stw knsnxm zsynq N ijxtqfyj {tzw mjfwy,
xt ymfy {tz xmfqq hzwxj ymj mtzw tk {tzw gnwym."

F knjsinxm wflj fsnrfyji mnr fx mj xfni ymnx; mnx kfhj bfx bwnspqji
nsyt htsytwyntsx ytt mtwwngqj ktw mzrfs j{jx yt gjmtqi; gzy uwjxjsyq{
mj hfqrji mnrxjqk fsi uwthjjiji--

"N nsyjsiji yt wjfxts.  Ymnx ufxxnts nx ijywnrjsyfq yt rj, ktw {tz it
sty wjkqjhy ymfy [TZ fwj ymj hfzxj tk nyx j{hjxx.  Nk fs{ gjnsl kjqy
jrtyntsx tk gjsjatqjshj ytbfwix rj, N xmtzqi wjyzws ymjr f mzsiwji fsi
f mzsiwjiktqi; ktw ymfy tsj hwjfyzwj'x xfpj N btzqi rfpj ujfhj bnym ymj
bmtqj pnsi!  Gzy N stb nsizqlj ns iwjfrx tk gqnxx ymfy hfssty gj
wjfqn{ji.  Bmfy N fxp tk {tz nx wjfxtsfgqj fsi rtijwfyj; N ijrfsi f
hwjfyzwj tk fstymjw xj{, gzy fx mnijtzx fx r{xjqk; ymj lwfynknhfynts nx
xrfqq, gzy ny nx fqq ymfy N hfs wjhjnaj, fsi ny xmfqq htsyjsy rj.  Ny
nx ywzj, bj xmfqq gj rtsxyjwx, hzy tkk kwtr fqq ymj btwqi; gzy ts ymfy
fhhtzsy bj xmfqq gj rtwj fyyfhmji yt tsj fstymjw.  Tzw qnajx bnqq sty
gj mfuu{, gzy ymj{ bnqq gj mfwrqjxx fsi kwjj kwtr ymj rnxjw{ N stb
kjjq.  Tm!  R{ hwjfytw, rfpj rj mfuu{; qjy rj kjjq lwfynyzij ytbfwix
{tz ktw tsj gjsjkny!  Qjy rj xjj ymfy N j{hnyj ymj x{rufym{ tk xtrj
j{nxynsl ymnsl; it sty ijs{ rj r{ wjvzjxy!"

N bfx rtaji.  N xmziijwji bmjs N ymtzlmy tk ymj utxxngqj htsxjvzjshjx
tk r{ htsxjsy, gzy N kjqy ymfy ymjwj bfx xtrj ozxynhj ns mnx fwlzrjsy.
Mnx yfqj fsi ymj kjjqnslx mj stb j{uwjxxji uwtaji mnr yt gj f hwjfyzwj
tk knsj xjsxfyntsx, fsi ini N sty fx mnx rfpjw tbj mnr fqq ymj utwynts
tk mfuunsjxx ymfy ny bfx ns r{ utbjw yt gjxytb?  Mj xfb r{ hmfslj tk
kjjqnsl fsi htsynszji,

"Nk {tz htsxjsy, sjnymjw {tz stw fs{ tymjw mzrfs gjnsl xmfqq jajw xjj
zx flfns; N bnqq lt yt ymj afxy bnqix tk Xtzym Frjwnhf.  R{ ktti nx sty
ymfy tk rfs; N it sty ijxywt{ ymj qfrg fsi ymj pni yt lqzy r{ fuujynyj;
fhtwsx fsi gjwwnjx fkktwi rj xzkknhnjsy stzwnxmrjsy.  R{ htrufsnts bnqq
gj tk ymj xfrj sfyzwj fx r{xjqk fsi bnqq gj htsyjsy bnym ymj xfrj kfwj.
Bj xmfqq rfpj tzw gji tk iwnji qjfajx; ymj xzs bnqq xmnsj ts zx fx ts
rfs fsi bnqq wnujs tzw ktti.  Ymj unhyzwj N uwjxjsy yt {tz nx ujfhjkzq
fsi mzrfs, fsi {tz rzxy kjjq ymfy {tz htzqi ijs{ ny tsq{ ns ymj
bfsytssjxx tk utbjw fsi hwzjqy{.  Unynqjxx fx {tz mfaj gjjs ytbfwix rj,
N stb xjj htrufxxnts ns {tzw j{jx; qjy rj xjn{j ymj kfatzwfgqj rtrjsy
fsi ujwxzfij {tz yt uwtrnxj bmfy N xt fwijsyq{ ijxnwj."

"[tz uwtutxj," wjuqnji N, "yt kq{ kwtr ymj mfgnyfyntsx tk rfs, yt ibjqq
ns ymtxj bnqix bmjwj ymj gjfxyx tk ymj knjqi bnqq gj {tzw tsq{
htrufsntsx.  Mtb hfs {tz, bmt qtsl ktw ymj qtaj fsi x{rufym{ tk rfs,
ujwxjajwj ns ymnx j{nqj?  [tz bnqq wjyzws fsi flfns xjjp ymjnw
pnsisjxx, fsi {tz bnqq rjjy bnym ymjnw ijyjxyfynts; {tzw janq ufxxntsx
bnqq gj wjsjbji, fsi {tz bnqq ymjs mfaj f htrufsnts yt fni {tz ns ymj
yfxp tk ijxywzhynts.  Ymnx rf{ sty gj; hjfxj yt fwlzj ymj utnsy, ktw N
hfssty htsxjsy."

"Mtb nshtsxyfsy fwj {tzw kjjqnslx!  Gzy f rtrjsy flt {tz bjwj rtaji g{
r{ wjuwjxjsyfyntsx, fsi bm{ it {tz flfns mfwijs {tzwxjqk yt r{
htruqfnsyx?  N xbjfw yt {tz, g{ ymj jfwym bmnhm N nsmfgny, fsi g{ {tz
ymfy rfij rj, ymfy bnym ymj htrufsnts {tz gjxytb N bnqq vzny ymj
sjnlmgtzwmtti tk rfs fsi ibjqq, fx ny rf{ hmfshj, ns ymj rtxy xfaflj tk
uqfhjx.  R{ janq ufxxntsx bnqq mfaj kqji, ktw N xmfqq rjjy bnym
x{rufym{!  R{ qnkj bnqq kqtb vznjyq{ fbf{, fsi ns r{ i{nsl rtrjsyx N
xmfqq sty hzwxj r{ rfpjw."

Mnx btwix mfi f xywfslj jkkjhy zuts rj.  N htrufxxntsfyji mnr fsi
xtrjynrjx kjqy f bnxm yt htsxtqj mnr, gzy bmjs N qttpji zuts mnr, bmjs
N xfb ymj knqym{ rfxx ymfy rtaji fsi yfqpji, r{ mjfwy xnhpjsji fsi r{
kjjqnslx bjwj fqyjwji yt ymtxj tk mtwwtw fsi mfywji.  N ywnji yt xynkqj
ymjxj xjsxfyntsx; N ymtzlmy ymfy fx N htzqi sty x{rufymn{j bnym mnr, N
mfi st wnlmy yt bnymmtqi kwtr mnr ymj xrfqq utwynts tk mfuunsjxx bmnhm
bfx {jy ns r{ utbjw yt gjxytb.

"[tz xbjfw," N xfni, "yt gj mfwrqjxx; gzy mfaj {tz sty fqwjfi{ xmtbs f
ijlwjj tk rfqnhj ymfy xmtzqi wjfxtsfgq{ rfpj rj inxywzxy {tz?  Rf{ sty
jajs ymnx gj f kjnsy ymfy bnqq nshwjfxj {tzw ywnzrum g{ fkktwinsl f
bnijw xhtuj ktw {tzw wjajslj?"

"Mtb nx ymnx?  N rzxy sty gj ywnkqji bnym, fsi N ijrfsi fs fsxbjw.  Nk
N mfaj st ynjx fsi st fkkjhyntsx, mfywji fsi anhj rzxy gj r{ utwynts;
ymj qtaj tk fstymjw bnqq ijxywt{ ymj hfzxj tk r{ hwnrjx, fsi N xmfqq
gjhtrj f ymnsl tk bmtxj j{nxyjshj jajw{tsj bnqq gj nlstwfsy.  R{ anhjx
fwj ymj hmnqiwjs tk f ktwhji xtqnyzij ymfy N fgmtw, fsi r{ anwyzjx bnqq
sjhjxxfwnq{ fwnxj bmjs N qnaj ns htrrzsnts bnym fs jvzfq.  N xmfqq kjjq
ymj fkkjhyntsx tk f xjsxnynaj gjnsl fsi gjhtrj qnspji yt ymj hmfns tk
j{nxyjshj fsi jajsyx kwtr bmnhm N fr stb j{hqziji."

N ufzxji xtrj ynrj yt wjkqjhy ts fqq mj mfi wjqfyji fsi ymj afwntzx
fwlzrjsyx bmnhm mj mfi jruqt{ji.  N ymtzlmy tk ymj uwtrnxj tk anwyzjx
bmnhm mj mfi inxuqf{ji ts ymj tujsnsl tk mnx j{nxyjshj fsi ymj
xzgxjvzjsy gqnlmy tk fqq pnsiq{ kjjqnsl g{ ymj qtfymnsl fsi xhtws bmnhm
mnx uwtyjhytwx mfi rfsnkjxyji ytbfwix mnr.  Mnx utbjw fsi ymwjfyx bjwj
sty trnyyji ns r{ hfqhzqfyntsx; f hwjfyzwj bmt htzqi j{nxy ns ymj nhj
hfajx tk ymj lqfhnjwx fsi mnij mnrxjqk kwtr uzwxzny frtsl ymj wniljx tk
nsfhhjxxngqj uwjhnunhjx bfx f gjnsl utxxjxxnsl kfhzqynjx ny btzqi gj
afns yt htuj bnym.  Fkyjw f qtsl ufzxj tk wjkqjhynts N htshqziji ymfy
ymj ozxynhj izj gtym yt mnr fsi r{ kjqqtb hwjfyzwjx ijrfsiji tk rj ymfy
N xmtzqi htruq{ bnym mnx wjvzjxy.  Yzwsnsl yt mnr, ymjwjktwj, N xfni,

"N htsxjsy yt {tzw ijrfsi, ts {tzw xtqjrs tfym yt vzny Jzwtuj ktwjajw,
fsi jajw{ tymjw uqfhj ns ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti tk rfs, fx xtts fx N xmfqq
ijqnajw nsyt {tzw mfsix f kjrfqj bmt bnqq fhhtrufs{ {tz ns {tzw j{nqj."

"N xbjfw," mj hwnji, "g{ ymj xzs, fsi g{ ymj gqzj xp{ tk mjfajs, fsi g{
ymj knwj tk qtaj ymfy gzwsx r{ mjfwy, ymfy nk {tz lwfsy r{ uwf{jw,
bmnqj ymj{ j{nxy {tz xmfqq sjajw gjmtqi rj flfns.  Ijufwy yt {tzw mtrj
fsi htrrjshj {tzw qfgtzwx; N xmfqq bfyhm ymjnw uwtlwjxx bnym
zszyyjwfgqj fs{njy{; fsi kjfw sty gzy ymfy bmjs {tz fwj wjfi{ N xmfqq
fuujfw."

Xf{nsl ymnx, mj xziijsq{ vznyyji rj, kjfwkzq, ujwmfux, tk fs{ hmfslj ns
r{ xjsynrjsyx.  N xfb mnr ijxhjsi ymj rtzsyfns bnym lwjfyjw xujji ymfs
ymj kqnlmy tk fs jflqj, fsi vznhpq{ qtxy frtsl ymj zsizqfyntsx tk ymj
xjf tk nhj.

Mnx yfqj mfi thhzunji ymj bmtqj if{, fsi ymj xzs bfx zuts ymj ajwlj tk
ymj mtwn{ts bmjs mj ijufwyji.  N psjb ymfy N tzlmy yt mfxyjs r{ ijxhjsy
ytbfwix ymj afqqj{, fx N xmtzqi xtts gj jshtrufxxji ns ifwpsjxx; gzy r{
mjfwy bfx mjfa{, fsi r{ xyjux xqtb.  Ymj qfgtzw tk bnsinsl frtsl ymj
qnyyqj ufymx tk ymj rtzsyfns fsi kn{nsl r{ kjjy knwrq{ fx N fiafshji
ujwuqj{ji rj, thhzunji fx N bfx g{ ymj jrtyntsx bmnhm ymj thhzwwjshjx
tk ymj if{ mfi uwtizhji.  Snlmy bfx kfw fiafshji bmjs N hfrj yt ymj
mfqkbf{ wjxynsl-uqfhj fsi xjfyji r{xjqk gjxnij ymj ktzsyfns.  Ymj xyfwx
xmtsj fy nsyjwafqx fx ymj hqtzix ufxxji kwtr tajw ymjr; ymj ifwp unsjx
wtxj gjktwj rj, fsi jajw{ mjwj fsi ymjwj f gwtpjs ywjj qf{ ts ymj
lwtzsi; ny bfx f xhjsj tk btsijwkzq xtqjrsny{ fsi xynwwji xywfslj
ymtzlmyx bnymns rj.  N bjuy gnyyjwq{, fsi hqfxunsl r{ mfsix ns flts{, N
j{hqfnrji, "Tm!  Xyfwx fsi hqtzix fsi bnsix, {j fwj fqq fgtzy yt rthp
rj; nk {j wjfqq{ uny{ rj, hwzxm xjsxfynts fsi rjrtw{; qjy rj gjhtrj fx
stzlmy; gzy nk sty, ijufwy, ijufwy, fsi qjfaj rj ns ifwpsjxx."

Ymjxj bjwj bnqi fsi rnxjwfgqj ymtzlmyx, gzy N hfssty ijxhwngj yt {tz
mtb ymj jyjwsfq ybnspqnsl tk ymj xyfwx bjnlmji zuts rj fsi mtb N
qnxyjsji yt jajw{ gqfxy tk bnsi fx nk ny bjwj f izqq zlq{ xnwth ts nyx
bf{ yt htsxzrj rj.

Rtwsnsl ifbsji gjktwj N fwwnaji fy ymj anqqflj tk Hmfrtzsn{; N yttp st
wjxy, gzy wjyzwsji nrrjinfyjq{ yt Ljsjaf.  Jajs ns r{ tbs mjfwy N htzqi
lnaj st j{uwjxxnts yt r{ xjsxfyntsx--ymj{ bjnlmji ts rj bnym f
rtzsyfns'x bjnlmy fsi ymjnw j{hjxx ijxywt{ji r{ flts{ gjsjfym ymjr.
Ymzx N wjyzwsji mtrj, fsi jsyjwnsl ymj mtzxj, uwjxjsyji r{xjqk yt ymj
kfrnq{.  R{ mfllfwi fsi bnqi fuujfwfshj fbtpj nsyjsxj fqfwr, gzy N
fsxbjwji st vzjxynts, xhfwhjq{ ini N xujfp.  N kjqy fx nk N bjwj uqfhji
zsijw f gfs--fx nk N mfi st wnlmy yt hqfnr ymjnw x{rufymnjx--fx nk
sjajw rtwj rnlmy N jsot{ htrufsntsxmnu bnym ymjr.  [jy jajs ymzx N
qtaji ymjr yt fitwfynts; fsi yt xfaj ymjr, N wjxtqaji yt ijinhfyj
r{xjqk yt r{ rtxy fgmtwwji yfxp.  Ymj uwtxujhy tk xzhm fs thhzufynts
rfij jajw{ tymjw hnwhzrxyfshj tk j{nxyjshj ufxx gjktwj rj qnpj f iwjfr,
fsi ymfy ymtzlmy tsq{ mfi yt rj ymj wjfqny{ tk qnkj.



Hmfuyjw 18

If{ fkyjw if{, bjjp fkyjw bjjp, ufxxji fbf{ ts r{ wjyzws yt Ljsjaf; fsi
N htzqi sty htqqjhy ymj htzwflj yt wjhtrrjshj r{ btwp.  N kjfwji ymj
ajsljfshj tk ymj inxfuutnsyji knjsi, {jy N bfx zsfgqj yt tajwhtrj r{
wjuzlsfshj yt ymj yfxp bmnhm bfx jsotnsji rj.  N ktzsi ymfy N htzqi sty
htrutxj f kjrfqj bnymtzy flfns ijatynsl xjajwfq rtsymx yt uwtktzsi
xyzi{ fsi qfgtwntzx inxvznxnynts.  N mfi mjfwi tk xtrj inxhtajwnjx
mfansl gjjs rfij g{ fs Jslqnxm umnqtxtumjw, ymj pstbqjilj tk bmnhm bfx
rfyjwnfq yt r{ xzhhjxx, fsi N xtrjynrjx ymtzlmy tk tgyfnsnsl r{
kfymjw'x htsxjsy yt anxny Jslqfsi ktw ymnx uzwutxj; gzy N hqzsl yt
jajw{ uwjyjshj tk ijqf{ fsi xmwfsp kwtr yfpnsl ymj knwxy xyju ns fs
zsijwyfpnsl bmtxj nrrjinfyj sjhjxxny{ gjlfs yt fuujfw qjxx fgxtqzyj yt
rj.  F hmfslj nsijji mfi yfpjs uqfhj ns rj; r{ mjfqym, bmnhm mfi
mnymjwyt ijhqnsji, bfx stb rzhm wjxytwji; fsi r{ xunwnyx, bmjs
zshmjhpji g{ ymj rjrtw{ tk r{ zsmfuu{ uwtrnxj, wtxj uwtutwyntsfgq{.  R{
kfymjw xfb ymnx hmfslj bnym uqjfxzwj, fsi mj yzwsji mnx ymtzlmyx
ytbfwix ymj gjxy rjymti tk jwfinhfynsl ymj wjrfnsx tk r{ rjqfshmtq{,
bmnhm jajw{ stb fsi ymjs btzqi wjyzws g{ knyx, fsi bnym f ijatzwnsl
gqfhpsjxx tajwhfxy ymj fuuwtfhmnsl xzsxmnsj.  Fy ymjxj rtrjsyx N yttp
wjkzlj ns ymj rtxy ujwkjhy xtqnyzij.  N ufxxji bmtqj if{x ts ymj qfpj
fqtsj ns f qnyyqj gtfy, bfyhmnsl ymj hqtzix fsi qnxyjsnsl yt ymj
wnuuqnsl tk ymj bfajx, xnqjsy fsi qnxyqjxx.  Gzy ymj kwjxm fnw fsi
gwnlmy xzs xjqitr kfnqji yt wjxytwj rj yt xtrj ijlwjj tk htrutxzwj, fsi
ts r{ wjyzws N rjy ymj xfqzyfyntsx tk r{ kwnjsix bnym f wjfinjw xrnqj
fsi f rtwj hmjjwkzq mjfwy.

Ny bfx fkyjw r{ wjyzws kwtr tsj tk ymjxj wfrgqjx ymfy r{ kfymjw,
hfqqnsl rj fxnij, ymzx fiiwjxxji rj,

"N fr mfuu{ yt wjrfwp, r{ ijfw xts, ymfy {tz mfaj wjxzrji {tzw ktwrjw
uqjfxzwjx fsi xjjr yt gj wjyzwsnsl yt {tzwxjqk.  Fsi {jy {tz fwj xynqq
zsmfuu{ fsi xynqq fatni tzw xthnjy{.  Ktw xtrj ynrj N bfx qtxy ns
htsojhyzwj fx yt ymj hfzxj tk ymnx, gzy {jxyjwif{ fs nijf xywzhp rj,
fsi nk ny nx bjqq ktzsiji, N htsozwj {tz yt fatb ny.  Wjxjwaj ts xzhm f
utnsy btzqi gj sty tsq{ zxjqjxx, gzy iwfb itbs ywjgqj rnxjw{ ts zx fqq."

N ywjrgqji antqjsyq{ fy mnx j{twinzr, fsi r{ kfymjw htsynszji--"N
htskjxx, r{ xts, ymfy N mfaj fqbf{x qttpji ktwbfwi yt {tzw rfwwnflj
bnym tzw ijfw Jqn{fgjym fx ymj ynj tk tzw itrjxynh htrktwy fsi ymj xyf{
tk r{ ijhqnsnsl {jfwx.  [tz bjwj fyyfhmji yt jfhm tymjw kwtr {tzw
jfwqnjxy nskfsh{; {tz xyzinji ytljymjw, fsi fuujfwji, ns inxutxnyntsx
fsi yfxyjx, jsynwjq{ xznyji yt tsj fstymjw.  Gzy xt gqnsi nx ymj
j{ujwnjshj tk rfs ymfy bmfy N htshjnaji yt gj ymj gjxy fxxnxyfsyx yt r{
uqfs rf{ mfaj jsynwjq{ ijxywt{ji ny.  [tz, ujwmfux, wjlfwi mjw fx {tzw
xnxyjw, bnymtzy fs{ bnxm ymfy xmj rnlmy gjhtrj {tzw bnkj.  Sf{, {tz rf{
mfaj rjy bnym fstymjw bmtr {tz rf{ qtaj; fsi htsxnijwnsl {tzwxjqk fx
gtzsi ns mtstzw yt Jqn{fgjym, ymnx xywzllqj rf{ thhfxnts ymj utnlsfsy
rnxjw{ bmnhm {tz fuujfw yt kjjq."

"R{ ijfw kfymjw, wjfxxzwj {tzwxjqk.  N qtaj r{ htzxns yjsijwq{ fsi
xnshjwjq{.  N sjajw xfb fs{ btrfs bmt j{hnyji, fx Jqn{fgjym itjx, r{
bfwrjxy firnwfynts fsi fkkjhynts.  R{ kzyzwj mtujx fsi uwtxujhyx fwj
jsynwjq{ gtzsi zu ns ymj j{ujhyfynts tk tzw zsnts."

"Ymj j{uwjxxnts tk {tzw xjsynrjsyx tk ymnx xzgojhy, r{ ijfw Anhytw,
lnajx rj rtwj uqjfxzwj ymfs N mfaj ktw xtrj ynrj j{ujwnjshji.  Nk {tz
kjjq ymzx, bj xmfqq fxxzwjiq{ gj mfuu{, mtbjajw uwjxjsy jajsyx rf{ hfxy
f lqttr tajw zx.  Gzy ny nx ymnx lqttr bmnhm fuujfwx yt mfaj yfpjs xt
xywtsl f mtqi tk {tzw rnsi ymfy N bnxm yt inxxnufyj.  Yjqq rj,
ymjwjktwj, bmjymjw {tz tgojhy yt fs nrrjinfyj xtqjrsn{fynts tk ymj
rfwwnflj.  Bj mfaj gjjs zsktwyzsfyj, fsi wjhjsy jajsyx mfaj iwfbs zx
kwtr ymfy jajw{if{ ywfsvznqqny{ gjknyynsl r{ {jfwx fsi nsknwrnynjx. [tz
fwj {tzsljw; {jy N it sty xzuutxj, utxxjxxji fx {tz fwj tk f htrujyjsy
ktwyzsj, ymfy fs jfwq{ rfwwnflj btzqi fy fqq nsyjwkjwj bnym fs{ kzyzwj
uqfsx tk mtstzw fsi zynqny{ ymfy {tz rf{ mfaj ktwrji.  It sty xzuutxj,
mtbjajw, ymfy N bnxm yt inhyfyj mfuunsjxx yt {tz tw ymfy f ijqf{ ts
{tzw ufwy btzqi hfzxj rj fs{ xjwntzx zsjfxnsjxx.  Nsyjwuwjy r{ btwix
bnym hfsitzw fsi fsxbjw rj, N htsozwj {tz, bnym htsknijshj fsi
xnshjwny{."

N qnxyjsji yt r{ kfymjw ns xnqjshj fsi wjrfnsji ktw xtrj ynrj nshfufgqj
tk tkkjwnsl fs{ wjuq{.  N wjatqaji wfuniq{ ns r{ rnsi f rzqynyzij tk
ymtzlmyx fsi jsijfatzwji yt fwwnaj fy xtrj htshqzxnts.  Fqfx!  Yt rj
ymj nijf tk fs nrrjinfyj zsnts bnym r{ Jqn{fgjym bfx tsj tk mtwwtw fsi
inxrf{.  N bfx gtzsi g{ f xtqjrs uwtrnxj bmnhm N mfi sty {jy kzqknqqji
fsi ifwji sty gwjfp, tw nk N ini, bmfy rfsnktqi rnxjwnjx rnlmy sty
nrujsi tajw rj fsi r{ ijatyji kfrnq{!  Htzqi N jsyjw nsyt f kjxynafq
bnym ymnx ijfiq{ bjnlmy {jy mfslnsl wtzsi r{ sjhp fsi gtbnsl rj yt ymj
lwtzsi?  N rzxy ujwktwr r{ jslfljrjsy fsi qjy ymj rtsxyjw ijufwy bnym
mnx rfyj gjktwj N fqqtbji r{xjqk yt jsot{ ymj ijqnlmy tk f zsnts kwtr
bmnhm N j{ujhyji ujfhj.

N wjrjrgjwji fqxt ymj sjhjxxny{ nrutxji zuts rj tk jnymjw otzwsj{nsl yt
Jslqfsi tw jsyjwnsl nsyt f qtsl htwwjxutsijshj bnym ymtxj umnqtxtumjwx
tk ymfy htzsyw{ bmtxj pstbqjilj fsi inxhtajwnjx bjwj tk nsinxujsxfgqj
zxj yt rj ns r{ uwjxjsy zsijwyfpnsl.  Ymj qfyyjw rjymti tk tgyfnsnsl
ymj ijxnwji nsyjqqnljshj bfx inqfytw{ fsi zsxfynxkfhytw{; gjxnijx, N
mfi fs nsxzwrtzsyfgqj fajwxnts yt ymj nijf tk jslflnsl r{xjqk ns r{
qtfymxtrj yfxp ns r{ kfymjw'x mtzxj bmnqj ns mfgnyx tk kfrnqnfw
nsyjwhtzwxj bnym ymtxj N qtaji.  N psjb ymfy f ymtzxfsi kjfwkzq
fhhnijsyx rnlmy thhzw, ymj xqnlmyjxy tk bmnhm btzqi inxhqtxj f yfqj yt
ymwnqq fqq htssjhyji bnym rj bnym mtwwtw.  N bfx fbfwj fqxt ymfy N
xmtzqi tkyjs qtxj fqq xjqk-htrrfsi, fqq hfufhny{ tk mninsl ymj
mfwwtbnsl xjsxfyntsx ymfy btzqi utxxjxx rj izwnsl ymj uwtlwjxx tk r{
zsjfwymq{ thhzufynts.  N rzxy fgxjsy r{xjqk kwtr fqq N qtaji bmnqj ymzx
jruqt{ji.  Tshj htrrjshji, ny btzqi vznhpq{ gj fhmnjaji, fsi N rnlmy gj
wjxytwji yt r{ kfrnq{ ns ujfhj fsi mfuunsjxx.  R{ uwtrnxj kzqknqqji,
ymj rtsxyjw btzqi ijufwy ktwjajw.  Tw (xt r{ ktsi kfsh{ nrflji) xtrj
fhhnijsy rnlmy rjfsbmnqj thhzw yt ijxywt{ mnr fsi uzy fs jsi yt r{
xqfajw{ ktwjajw.

Ymjxj kjjqnslx inhyfyji r{ fsxbjw yt r{ kfymjw.  N j{uwjxxji f bnxm yt
anxny Jslqfsi, gzy htshjfqnsl ymj ywzj wjfxtsx tk ymnx wjvzjxy, N
hqtymji r{ ijxnwjx zsijw f lznxj bmnhm j{hnyji st xzxunhnts, bmnqj N
zwlji r{ ijxnwj bnym fs jfwsjxysjxx ymfy jfxnq{ nsizhji r{ kfymjw yt
htruq{.  Fkyjw xt qtsl f ujwnti tk fs fgxtwgnsl rjqfshmtq{ ymfy
wjxjrgqji rfisjxx ns nyx nsyjsxny{ fsi jkkjhyx, mj bfx lqfi yt knsi
ymfy N bfx hfufgqj tk yfpnsl uqjfxzwj ns ymj nijf tk xzhm f otzwsj{,
fsi mj mtuji ymfy hmfslj tk xhjsj fsi afwnji frzxjrjsy btzqi, gjktwj r{
wjyzws, mfaj wjxytwji rj jsynwjq{ yt r{xjqk.

Ymj izwfynts tk r{ fgxjshj bfx qjky yt r{ tbs hmtnhj; f kjb rtsymx, tw
fy rtxy f {jfw, bfx ymj ujwnti htsyjruqfyji.  Tsj ufyjwsfq pnsi
uwjhfzynts mj mfi yfpjs yt jsxzwj r{ mfansl f htrufsnts.  Bnymtzy
uwjantzxq{ htrrzsnhfynsl bnym rj, mj mfi, ns htshjwy bnym Jqn{fgjym,
fwwfslji ymfy Hqjwafq xmtzqi otns rj fy Xywfxgtzwl.  Ymnx nsyjwkjwji
bnym ymj xtqnyzij N htajyji ktw ymj uwtxjhzynts tk r{ yfxp; {jy fy ymj
htrrjshjrjsy tk r{ otzwsj{ ymj uwjxjshj tk r{ kwnjsi htzqi ns st bf{ gj
fs nrujinrjsy, fsi ywzq{ N wjotnhji ymfy ymzx N xmtzqi gj xfaji rfs{
mtzwx tk qtsjq{, rfiijsnsl wjkqjhynts.  Sf{, Mjsw{ rnlmy xyfsi gjybjjs
rj fsi ymj nsywzxnts tk r{ ktj.  Nk N bjwj fqtsj, btzqi mj sty fy ynrjx
ktwhj mnx fgmtwwji uwjxjshj ts rj yt wjrnsi rj tk r{ yfxp tw yt
htsyjruqfyj nyx uwtlwjxx?

Yt Jslqfsi, ymjwjktwj, N bfx gtzsi, fsi ny bfx zsijwxytti ymfy r{ zsnts
bnym Jqn{fgjym xmtzqi yfpj uqfhj nrrjinfyjq{ ts r{ wjyzws.  R{ kfymjw'x
flj wjsijwji mnr j{ywjrjq{ fajwxj yt ijqf{.  Ktw r{xjqk, ymjwj bfx tsj
wjbfwi N uwtrnxji r{xjqk kwtr r{ ijyjxyji ytnqx--tsj htsxtqfynts ktw r{
zsufwfqqjqji xzkkjwnslx; ny bfx ymj uwtxujhy tk ymfy if{ bmjs,
jskwfshmnxji kwtr r{ rnxjwfgqj xqfajw{, N rnlmy hqfnr Jqn{fgjym fsi
ktwljy ymj ufxy ns r{ zsnts bnym mjw.

N stb rfij fwwfsljrjsyx ktw r{ otzwsj{, gzy tsj kjjqnsl mfzsyji rj
bmnhm knqqji rj bnym kjfw fsi flnyfynts.  Izwnsl r{ fgxjshj N xmtzqi
qjfaj r{ kwnjsix zshtsxhntzx tk ymj j{nxyjshj tk ymjnw jsjr{ fsi
zsuwtyjhyji kwtr mnx fyyfhpx, j{fxujwfyji fx mj rnlmy gj g{ r{
ijufwyzwj.  Gzy mj mfi uwtrnxji yt ktqqtb rj bmjwjajw N rnlmy lt, fsi
btzqi mj sty fhhtrufs{ rj yt Jslqfsi?  Ymnx nrflnsfynts bfx iwjfikzq ns
nyxjqk, gzy xttymnsl nsfxrzhm fx ny xzuutxji ymj xfkjy{ tk r{ kwnjsix.
N bfx fltsn{ji bnym ymj nijf tk ymj utxxngnqny{ ymfy ymj wjajwxj tk
ymnx rnlmy mfuujs.  Gzy ymwtzlm ymj bmtqj ujwnti izwnsl bmnhm N bfx ymj
xqfaj tk r{ hwjfyzwj N fqqtbji r{xjqk yt gj ltajwsji g{ ymj nruzqxjx tk
ymj rtrjsy; fsi r{ uwjxjsy xjsxfyntsx xywtslq{ nsynrfyji ymfy ymj knjsi
btzqi ktqqtb rj fsi j{jruy r{ kfrnq{ kwtr ymj ifsljw tk mnx
rfhmnsfyntsx.

Ny bfx ns ymj qfyyjw jsi tk Xjuyjrgjw ymfy N flfns vznyyji r{ sfynaj
htzsyw{.  R{ otzwsj{ mfi gjjs r{ tbs xzlljxynts, fsi Jqn{fgjym
ymjwjktwj fhvznjxhji, gzy xmj bfx knqqji bnym inxvznjy fy ymj nijf tk
r{ xzkkjwnsl, fbf{ kwtr mjw, ymj nswtfix tk rnxjw{ fsi lwnjk.  Ny mfi
gjjs mjw hfwj bmnhm uwtaniji rj f htrufsnts ns Hqjwafq--fsi {jy f rfs
nx gqnsi yt f ymtzxfsi rnszyj hnwhzrxyfshjx bmnhm hfqq ktwym f btrfs'x
xjizqtzx fyyjsynts.  Xmj qtslji yt gni rj mfxyjs r{ wjyzws; f ymtzxfsi
htskqnhynsl jrtyntsx wjsijwji mjw rzyj fx xmj gfij rj f yjfwkzq, xnqjsy
kfwjbjqq.

N ymwjb r{xjqk nsyt ymj hfwwnflj ymfy bfx yt htsaj{ rj fbf{, mfwiq{
pstbnsl bmnymjw N bfx ltnsl, fsi hfwjqjxx tk bmfy bfx ufxxnsl fwtzsi.
N wjrjrgjwji tsq{, fsi ny bfx bnym f gnyyjw fslznxm ymfy N wjkqjhyji ts
ny, yt twijw ymfy r{ hmjrnhfq nsxywzrjsyx xmtzqi gj ufhpji yt lt bnym
rj.  Knqqji bnym iwjfw{ nrflnsfyntsx, N ufxxji ymwtzlm rfs{ gjfzynkzq
fsi rfojxynh xhjsjx, gzy r{ j{jx bjwj kn{ji fsi zstgxjwansl.  N htzqi
tsq{ ymnsp tk ymj gtzwsj tk r{ ywfajqx fsi ymj btwp bmnhm bfx yt thhzu{
rj bmnqxy ymj{ jsizwji.

Fkyjw xtrj if{x xujsy ns qnxyqjxx nsitqjshj, izwnsl bmnhm N ywfajwxji
rfs{ qjflzjx, N fwwnaji fy Xywfxgtzwl, bmjwj N bfnyji ybt if{x ktw
Hqjwafq.  Mj hfrj.  Fqfx, mtb lwjfy bfx ymj htsywfxy gjybjjs zx!  Mj
bfx fqnaj yt jajw{ sjb xhjsj, ot{kzq bmjs mj xfb ymj gjfzynjx tk ymj
xjyynsl xzs, fsi rtwj mfuu{ bmjs mj gjmjqi ny wnxj fsi wjhtrrjshj f sjb
if{.  Mj utnsyji tzy yt rj ymj xmnkynsl htqtzwx tk ymj qfsixhfuj fsi
ymj fuujfwfshjx tk ymj xp{.  "Ymnx nx bmfy ny nx yt qnaj," mj hwnji;
"mtb N jsot{ j{nxyjshj!  Gzy {tz, r{ ijfw Kwfspjsxyjns, bmjwjktwj fwj
{tz ijxutsinsl fsi xtwwtbkzq!" Ns ywzym, N bfx thhzunji g{ lqttr{
ymtzlmyx fsi sjnymjw xfb ymj ijxhjsy tk ymj jajsnsl xyfw stw ymj ltqijs
xzswnxj wjkqjhyji ns ymj Wmnsj.  Fsi {tz, r{ kwnjsi, btzqi gj kfw rtwj
frzxji bnym ymj otzwsfq tk Hqjwafq, bmt tgxjwaji ymj xhjsjw{ bnym fs
j{j tk kjjqnsl fsi ijqnlmy, ymfs ns qnxyjsnsl yt r{ wjkqjhyntsx.  N, f
rnxjwfgqj bwjyhm, mfzsyji g{ f hzwxj ymfy xmzy zu jajw{ fajszj yt
jsot{rjsy.

Bj mfi flwjji yt ijxhjsi ymj Wmnsj ns f gtfy kwtr Xywfxgtzwl yt
Wtyyjwifr, bmjshj bj rnlmy yfpj xmnuunsl ktw Qtsits.  Izwnsl ymnx
at{flj bj ufxxji rfs{ bnqqtb{ nxqfsix fsi xfb xjajwfq gjfzynkzq ytbsx.
Bj xyf{ji f if{ fy Rfssmjnr, fsi ts ymj knkym kwtr tzw ijufwyzwj kwtr
Xywfxgtzwl, fwwnaji fy Rfns{.  Ymj htzwxj tk ymj Wmnsj gjqtb Rfns{
gjhtrjx rzhm rtwj unhyzwjxvzj.  Ymj wnajw ijxhjsix wfuniq{ fsi bnsix
gjybjjs mnqqx, sty mnlm, gzy xyjju, fsi tk gjfzynkzq ktwrx.  Bj xfb
rfs{ wznsji hfxyqjx xyfsinsl ts ymj jiljx tk uwjhnunhjx, xzwwtzsiji g{
gqfhp bttix, mnlm fsi nsfhhjxxngqj.  Ymnx ufwy tk ymj Wmnsj, nsijji,
uwjxjsyx f xnslzqfwq{ afwnjlfyji qfsixhfuj.  Ns tsj xuty {tz anjb
wzllji mnqqx, wznsji hfxyqjx tajwqttpnsl ywjrjsitzx uwjhnunhjx, bnym
ymj ifwp Wmnsj wzxmnsl gjsjfym; fsi ts ymj xziijs yzws tk f uwtrtsytw{,
kqtzwnxmnsl ansj{fwix bnym lwjjs xqtunsl gfspx fsi f rjfsijwnsl wnajw
fsi utuzqtzx ytbsx thhzu{ ymj xhjsj.

Bj ywfajqqji fy ymj ynrj tk ymj ansyflj fsi mjfwi ymj xtsl tk ymj
qfgtzwjwx fx bj lqniji itbs ymj xywjfr.  Jajs N, ijuwjxxji ns rnsi, fsi
r{ xunwnyx htsynszfqq{ flnyfyji g{ lqttr{ kjjqnslx, jajs N bfx uqjfxji.
N qf{ fy ymj gtyytr tk ymj gtfy, fsi fx N lf{ji ts ymj hqtziqjxx gqzj
xp{, N xjjrji yt iwnsp ns f ywfsvznqqny{ yt bmnhm N mfi qtsl gjjs f
xywfsljw.  Fsi nk ymjxj bjwj r{ xjsxfyntsx, bmt hfs ijxhwngj ymtxj tk
Mjsw{?  Mj kjqy fx nk mj mfi gjjs ywfsxutwyji yt kfnw{-qfsi fsi jsot{ji
f mfuunsjxx xjqitr yfxyji g{ rfs.  "N mfaj xjjs," mj xfni, "ymj rtxy
gjfzynkzq xhjsjx tk r{ tbs htzsyw{; N mfaj anxnyji ymj qfpjx tk Qzhjwsj
fsi Zwn, bmjwj ymj xstb{ rtzsyfnsx ijxhjsi fqrtxy ujwujsinhzqfwq{ yt
ymj bfyjw, hfxynsl gqfhp fsi nrujsjywfgqj xmfijx, bmnhm btzqi hfzxj f
lqttr{ fsi rtzwskzq fuujfwfshj bjwj ny sty ktw ymj rtxy ajwifsy nxqfsix
ymfy gjqnjaj ymj j{j g{ ymjnw lf{ fuujfwfshj; N mfaj xjjs ymnx qfpj
flnyfyji g{ f yjrujxy, bmjs ymj bnsi ytwj zu bmnwqbnsix tk bfyjw fsi
lfaj {tz fs nijf tk bmfy ymj bfyjw-xutzy rzxy gj ts ymj lwjfy thjfs;
fsi ymj bfajx ifxm bnym kzw{ ymj gfxj tk ymj rtzsyfns, bmjwj ymj uwnjxy
fsi mnx rnxywjxx bjwj tajwbmjqrji g{ fs fafqfshmj fsi bmjwj ymjnw i{nsl
atnhjx fwj xynqq xfni yt gj mjfwi frni ymj ufzxjx tk ymj snlmyq{ bnsi;
N mfaj xjjs ymj rtzsyfnsx tk Qf Afqfnx, fsi ymj Uf{x ij Afzi; gzy ymnx
htzsyw{, Anhytw, uqjfxjx rj rtwj ymfs fqq ymtxj btsijwx.  Ymj rtzsyfnsx
tk Xbny{jwqfsi fwj rtwj rfojxynh fsi xywfslj, gzy ymjwj nx f hmfwr ns
ymj gfspx tk ymnx inansj wnajw ymfy N sjajw gjktwj xfb jvzfqqji.  Qttp
fy ymfy hfxyqj bmnhm tajwmfslx {ts uwjhnunhj; fsi ymfy fqxt ts ymj
nxqfsi, fqrtxy htshjfqji frtslxy ymj ktqnflj tk ymtxj qtajq{ ywjjx; fsi
stb ymfy lwtzu tk qfgtzwjwx htrnsl kwtr frtsl ymjnw ansjx; fsi ymfy
anqqflj mfqk mni ns ymj wjhjxx tk ymj rtzsyfns.  Tm, xzwjq{ ymj xunwny
ymfy nsmfgnyx fsi lzfwix ymnx uqfhj mfx f xtzq rtwj ns mfwrts{ bnym rfs
ymfs ymtxj bmt unqj ymj lqfhnjw tw wjynwj yt ymj nsfhhjxxngqj ujfpx tk
ymj rtzsyfnsx tk tzw tbs htzsyw{." Hqjwafq!  Gjqtaji kwnjsi!  Jajs stb
ny ijqnlmyx rj yt wjhtwi {tzw btwix fsi yt ibjqq ts ymj uwfnxj tk bmnhm
{tz fwj xt jrnsjsyq{ ijxjwansl.  Mj bfx f gjnsl ktwrji ns ymj "ajw{
utjyw{ tk sfyzwj." Mnx bnqi fsi jsymzxnfxynh nrflnsfynts bfx hmfxyjsji
g{ ymj xjsxngnqny{ tk mnx mjfwy.  Mnx xtzq tajwkqtbji bnym fwijsy
fkkjhyntsx, fsi mnx kwnjsixmnu bfx tk ymfy ijatyji fsi btsiwtzx sfyzwj
ymfy ymj btwqi-rnsiji yjfhm zx yt qttp ktw tsq{ ns ymj nrflnsfynts. Gzy
jajs mzrfs x{rufymnjx bjwj sty xzkknhnjsy yt xfynxk{ mnx jfljw rnsi.
Ymj xhjsjw{ tk j{yjwsfq sfyzwj, bmnhm tymjwx wjlfwi tsq{ bnym
firnwfynts, mj qtaji bnym fwitzw:--


     ----Ymj xtzsinsl hfyfwfhy
     Mfzsyji mnr qnpj f ufxxnts:  ymj yfqq wthp,
     Ymj rtzsyfns, fsi ymj ijju fsi lqttr{ btti,
     Ymjnw htqtzwx fsi ymjnw ktwrx, bjwj ymjs yt mnr
     Fs fuujynyj; f kjjqnsl, fsi f qtaj,
     Ymfy mfi st sjji tk f wjrtyjw hmfwr,
     G{ ymtzlmy xzuuqnji, tw fs{ nsyjwjxy
     Zsgtwwtb'i kwtr ymj j{j.

                    [Btwixbtwym'x "Ynsyjws Fggj{".]


Fsi bmjwj itjx mj stb j{nxy?  Nx ymnx ljsyqj fsi qtajq{ gjnsl qtxy
ktwjajw?  Mfx ymnx rnsi, xt wjuqjyj bnym nijfx, nrflnsfyntsx kfshnkzq
fsi rflsnknhjsy, bmnhm ktwrji f btwqi, bmtxj j{nxyjshj ijujsiji ts ymj
qnkj tk nyx hwjfytw;--mfx ymnx rnsi ujwnxmji?  Itjx ny stb tsq{ j{nxy
ns r{ rjrtw{?  St, ny nx sty ymzx; {tzw ktwr xt inansjq{ bwtzlmy, fsi
gjfrnsl bnym gjfzy{, mfx ijhf{ji, gzy {tzw xunwny xynqq anxnyx fsi
htsxtqjx {tzw zsmfuu{ kwnjsi.

Ufwits ymnx lzxm tk xtwwtb; ymjxj nsjkkjhyzfq btwix fwj gzy f xqnlmy
ywngzyj yt ymj zsj{fruqji btwym tk Mjsw{, gzy ymj{ xttymj r{ mjfwy,
tajwkqtbnsl bnym ymj fslznxm bmnhm mnx wjrjrgwfshj hwjfyjx.  N bnqq
uwthjji bnym r{ yfqj.

Gj{tsi Htqtlsj bj ijxhjsiji yt ymj uqfnsx tk Mtqqfsi; fsi bj wjxtqaji
yt utxy ymj wjrfnsijw tk tzw bf{, ktw ymj bnsi bfx htsywfw{ fsi ymj
xywjfr tk ymj wnajw bfx ytt ljsyqj yt fni zx.  Tzw otzwsj{ mjwj qtxy
ymj nsyjwjxy fwnxnsl kwtr gjfzynkzq xhjsjw{, gzy bj fwwnaji ns f kjb
if{x fy Wtyyjwifr, bmjshj bj uwthjjiji g{ xjf yt Jslqfsi.  Ny bfx ts f
hqjfw rtwsnsl, ns ymj qfyyjw if{x tk Ijhjrgjw, ymfy N knwxy xfb ymj
bmnyj hqnkkx tk Gwnyfns.  Ymj gfspx tk ymj Ymfrjx uwjxjsyji f sjb
xhjsj; ymj{ bjwj kqfy gzy kjwynqj, fsi fqrtxy jajw{ ytbs bfx rfwpji g{
ymj wjrjrgwfshj tk xtrj xytw{.  Bj xfb Ynqgzw{ Ktwy fsi wjrjrgjwji ymj
Xufsnxm Fwrfif, Lwfajxjsi, Bttqbnhm, fsi Lwjjsbnhm--uqfhjx bmnhm N mfi
mjfwi tk jajs ns r{ htzsyw{.

Fy qjslym bj xfb ymj szrjwtzx xyjjuqjx tk Qtsits, Xy. Ufzq'x ytbjwnsl
fgtaj fqq, fsi ymj Ytbjw kfrji ns Jslqnxm mnxytw{.



Hmfuyjw 19

Qtsits bfx tzw uwjxjsy utnsy tk wjxy; bj ijyjwrnsji yt wjrfns xjajwfq
rtsymx ns ymnx btsijwkzq fsi hjqjgwfyji hny{.  Hqjwafq ijxnwji ymj
nsyjwhtzwxj tk ymj rjs tk ljsnzx fsi yfqjsy bmt kqtzwnxmji fy ymnx
ynrj, gzy ymnx bfx bnym rj f xjhtsifw{ tgojhy; N bfx uwnshnufqq{
thhzunji bnym ymj rjfsx tk tgyfnsnsl ymj nsktwrfynts sjhjxxfw{ ktw ymj
htruqjynts tk r{ uwtrnxj fsi vznhpq{ fafnqji r{xjqk tk ymj qjyyjwx tk
nsywtizhynts ymfy N mfi gwtzlmy bnym rj, fiiwjxxji yt ymj rtxy
inxynslznxmji sfyzwfq umnqtxtumjwx.

Nk ymnx otzwsj{ mfi yfpjs uqfhj izwnsl r{ if{x tk xyzi{ fsi mfuunsjxx,
ny btzqi mfaj fkktwiji rj nsj{uwjxxngqj uqjfxzwj.  Gzy f gqnlmy mfi
htrj tajw r{ j{nxyjshj, fsi N tsq{ anxnyji ymjxj ujtuqj ktw ymj xfpj tk
ymj nsktwrfynts ymj{ rnlmy lnaj rj ts ymj xzgojhy ns bmnhm r{ nsyjwjxy
bfx xt yjwwngq{ uwtktzsi.  Htrufs{ bfx nwpxtrj yt rj; bmjs fqtsj, N
htzqi knqq r{ rnsi bnym ymj xnlmyx tk mjfajs fsi jfwym; ymj atnhj tk
Mjsw{ xttymji rj, fsi N htzqi ymzx hmjfy r{xjqk nsyt f ywfsxnytw{
ujfhj.  Gzy gzx{, zsnsyjwjxynsl, ot{tzx kfhjx gwtzlmy gfhp ijxufnw yt
r{ mjfwy.  N xfb fs nsxzwrtzsyfgqj gfwwnjw uqfhji gjybjjs rj fsi r{
kjqqtb rjs; ymnx gfwwnjw bfx xjfqji bnym ymj gqtti tk Bnqqnfr fsi
Ozxynsj, fsi yt wjkqjhy ts ymj jajsyx htssjhyji bnym ymtxj sfrjx knqqji
r{ xtzq bnym fslznxm.

Gzy ns Hqjwafq N xfb ymj nrflj tk r{ ktwrjw xjqk; mj bfx nsvznxnynaj
fsi fs{ntzx yt lfns j{ujwnjshj fsi nsxywzhynts.  Ymj inkkjwjshj tk
rfssjwx bmnhm mj tgxjwaji bfx yt mnr fs nsj{mfzxyngqj xtzwhj tk
nsxywzhynts fsi frzxjrjsy.  Mj bfx fqxt uzwxznsl fs tgojhy mj mfi qtsl
mfi ns anjb.  Mnx ijxnls bfx yt anxny Nsinf, ns ymj gjqnjk ymfy mj mfi
ns mnx pstbqjilj tk nyx afwntzx qfslzfljx, fsi ns ymj anjbx mj mfi
yfpjs tk nyx xthnjy{, ymj rjfsx tk rfyjwnfqq{ fxxnxynsl ymj uwtlwjxx tk
Jzwtujfs htqtsn{fynts fsi ywfij.  Ns Gwnyfns tsq{ htzqi mj kzwymjw ymj
j{jhzynts tk mnx uqfs.  Mj bfx ktwjajw gzx{, fsi ymj tsq{ hmjhp yt mnx
jsot{rjsyx bfx r{ xtwwtbkzq fsi ijojhyji rnsi.  N ywnji yt htshjfq ymnx
fx rzhm fx utxxngqj, ymfy N rnlmy sty ijgfw mnr kwtr ymj uqjfxzwjx
sfyzwfq yt tsj bmt bfx jsyjwnsl ts f sjb xhjsj tk qnkj, zsinxyzwgji g{
fs{ hfwj tw gnyyjw wjhtqqjhynts.  N tkyjs wjkzxji yt fhhtrufs{ mnr,
fqqjlnsl fstymjw jslfljrjsy, ymfy N rnlmy wjrfns fqtsj.  N stb fqxt
gjlfs yt htqqjhy ymj rfyjwnfqx sjhjxxfw{ ktw r{ sjb hwjfynts, fsi ymnx
bfx yt rj qnpj ymj ytwyzwj tk xnslqj iwtux tk bfyjw htsynszfqq{ kfqqnsl
ts ymj mjfi.  Jajw{ ymtzlmy ymfy bfx ijatyji yt ny bfx fs j{ywjrj
fslznxm, fsi jajw{ btwi ymfy N xutpj ns fqqzxnts yt ny hfzxji r{ qnux
yt vznajw, fsi r{ mjfwy yt ufqunyfyj.

Fkyjw ufxxnsl xtrj rtsymx ns Qtsits, bj wjhjnaji f qjyyjw kwtr f ujwxts
ns Xhtyqfsi bmt mfi ktwrjwq{ gjjs tzw anxnytw fy Ljsjaf.  Mj rjsyntsji
ymj gjfzynjx tk mnx sfynaj htzsyw{ fsi fxpji zx nk ymtxj bjwj sty
xzkknhnjsy fqqzwjrjsyx yt nsizhj zx yt uwtqtsl tzw otzwsj{ fx kfw stwym
fx Ujwym, bmjwj mj wjxniji.  Hqjwafq jfljwq{ ijxnwji yt fhhjuy ymnx
nsanyfynts, fsi N, fqymtzlm N fgmtwwji xthnjy{, bnxmji yt anjb flfns
rtzsyfnsx fsi xywjfrx fsi fqq ymj btsiwtzx btwpx bnym bmnhm Sfyzwj
fitwsx mjw hmtxjs ibjqqnsl-uqfhjx.  Bj mfi fwwnaji ns Jslqfsi fy ymj
gjlnssnsl tk Thytgjw, fsi ny bfx stb Kjgwzfw{.  Bj fhhtwinslq{
ijyjwrnsji yt htrrjshj tzw otzwsj{ ytbfwix ymj stwym fy ymj j{unwfynts
tk fstymjw rtsym.  Ns ymnx j{ujinynts bj ini sty nsyjsi yt ktqqtb ymj
lwjfy wtfi yt Jinsgzwlm, gzy yt anxny Bnsixtw, T{ktwi, Rfyqthp, fsi ymj
Hzrgjwqfsi qfpjx, wjxtqansl yt fwwnaj fy ymj htruqjynts tk ymnx ytzw
fgtzy ymj jsi tk Ozq{.  N ufhpji zu r{ hmjrnhfq nsxywzrjsyx fsi ymj
rfyjwnfqx N mfi htqqjhyji, wjxtqansl yt knsnxm r{ qfgtzwx ns xtrj
tgxhzwj sttp ns ymj stwymjws mnlmqfsix tk Xhtyqfsi.

Bj vznyyji Qtsits ts ymj 27ym tk Rfwhm fsi wjrfnsji f kjb if{x fy
Bnsixtw, wfrgqnsl ns nyx gjfzynkzq ktwjxy.  Ymnx bfx f sjb xhjsj yt zx
rtzsyfnsjjwx; ymj rfojxynh tfpx, ymj vzfsyny{ tk lfrj, fsi ymj mjwix tk
xyfyjq{ ijjw bjwj fqq stajqynjx yt zx.

Kwtr ymjshj bj uwthjjiji yt T{ktwi.  Fx bj jsyjwji ymnx hny{ tzw rnsix
bjwj knqqji bnym ymj wjrjrgwfshj tk ymj jajsyx ymfy mfi gjjs ywfsxfhyji
ymjwj rtwj ymfs f hjsyzw{ fsi f mfqk gjktwj.  Ny bfx mjwj ymfy Hmfwqjx
N. mfi htqqjhyji mnx ktwhjx.  Ymnx hny{ mfi wjrfnsji kfnymkzq yt mnr,
fkyjw ymj bmtqj sfynts mfi ktwxfpjs mnx hfzxj yt otns ymj xyfsifwi tk
Ufwqnfrjsy fsi qngjwy{.  Ymj rjrtw{ tk ymfy zsktwyzsfyj pnsl fsi mnx
htrufsntsx, ymj frnfgqj Kfqpqfsi, ymj nsxtqjsy Ltwnsl, mnx vzjjs, fsi
xts, lfaj f ujhzqnfw nsyjwjxy yt jajw{ ufwy tk ymj hny{ bmnhm ymj{
rnlmy gj xzuutxji yt mfaj nsmfgnyji.  Ymj xunwny tk jqijw if{x ktzsi f
ibjqqnsl mjwj, fsi bj ijqnlmyji yt ywfhj nyx kttyxyjux.  Nk ymjxj
kjjqnslx mfi sty ktzsi fs nrflnsfw{ lwfynknhfynts, ymj fuujfwfshj tk
ymj hny{ mfi {jy ns nyxjqk xzkknhnjsy gjfzy{ yt tgyfns tzw firnwfynts.
Ymj htqqjljx fwj fshnjsy fsi unhyzwjxvzj; ymj xywjjyx fwj fqrtxy
rflsnknhjsy; fsi ymj qtajq{ Nxnx, bmnhm kqtbx gjxnij ny ymwtzlm rjfitbx
tk j{vznxnyj ajwizwj, nx xuwjfi ktwym nsyt f uqfhni j{ufsxj tk bfyjwx,
bmnhm wjkqjhyx nyx rfojxynh fxxjrgqflj tk ytbjwx, fsi xunwjx, fsi
itrjx, jrgtxtrji frtsl flji ywjjx.

N jsot{ji ymnx xhjsj, fsi {jy r{ jsot{rjsy bfx jrgnyyjwji gtym g{ ymj
rjrtw{ tk ymj ufxy fsi ymj fsynhnufynts tk ymj kzyzwj.  N bfx ktwrji
ktw ujfhjkzq mfuunsjxx.  Izwnsl r{ {tzymkzq if{x inxhtsyjsy sjajw
anxnyji r{ rnsi, fsi nk N bfx jajw tajwhtrj g{ jsszn, ymj xnlmy tk bmfy
nx gjfzynkzq ns sfyzwj tw ymj xyzi{ tk bmfy nx j{hjqqjsy fsi xzgqnrj ns
ymj uwtizhyntsx tk rfs htzqi fqbf{x nsyjwjxy r{ mjfwy fsi htrrzsnhfyj
jqfxynhny{ yt r{ xunwnyx.  Gzy N fr f gqfxyji ywjj; ymj gtqy mfx
jsyjwji r{ xtzq; fsi N kjqy ymjs ymfy N xmtzqi xzwanaj yt j{mngny bmfy
N xmfqq xtts hjfxj yt gj--f rnxjwfgqj xujhyfhqj tk bwjhpji mzrfsny{,
unynfgqj yt tymjwx fsi nsytqjwfgqj yt r{xjqk.

Bj ufxxji f htsxnijwfgqj ujwnti fy T{ktwi, wfrgqnsl frtsl nyx jsanwtsx
fsi jsijfatzwnsl yt nijsynk{ jajw{ xuty bmnhm rnlmy wjqfyj yt ymj rtxy
fsnrfynsl juthm tk Jslqnxm mnxytw{.  Tzw qnyyqj at{fljx tk inxhtajw{
bjwj tkyjs uwtqtslji g{ ymj xzhhjxxnaj tgojhyx ymfy uwjxjsyji
ymjrxjqajx.  Bj anxnyji ymj ytrg tk ymj nqqzxywntzx Mfruijs fsi ymj
knjqi ts bmnhm ymfy ufywnty kjqq.  Ktw f rtrjsy r{ xtzq bfx jqjafyji
kwtr nyx ijgfxnsl fsi rnxjwfgqj kjfwx yt htsyjruqfyj ymj inansj nijfx
tk qngjwy{ fsi xjqk xfhwnknhj tk bmnhm ymjxj xnlmyx bjwj ymj rtszrjsyx
fsi ymj wjrjrgwfshjwx.  Ktw fs nsxyfsy N ifwji yt xmfpj tkk r{ hmfnsx
fsi qttp fwtzsi rj bnym f kwjj fsi qtky{ xunwny, gzy ymj nwts mfi jfyjs
nsyt r{ kqjxm, fsi N xfsp flfns, ywjrgqnsl fsi mtujqjxx, nsyt r{
rnxjwfgqj xjqk.

Bj qjky T{ktwi bnym wjlwjy fsi uwthjjiji yt Rfyqthp, bmnhm bfx tzw sj{y
uqfhj tk wjxy.  Ymj htzsyw{ ns ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti tk ymnx anqqflj
wjxjrgqji, yt f lwjfyjw ijlwjj, ymj xhjsjw{ tk Xbny{jwqfsi; gzy
jajw{ymnsl nx ts f qtbjw xhfqj, fsi ymj lwjjs mnqqx bfsy ymj hwtbs tk
inxyfsy bmnyj Fqux bmnhm fqbf{x fyyjsi ts ymj uns{ rtzsyfnsx tk r{
sfynaj htzsyw{.  Bj anxnyji ymj btsiwtzx hfaj fsi ymj qnyyqj hfgnsjyx
tk sfyzwfq mnxytw{, bmjwj ymj hzwntxnynjx fwj inxutxji ns ymj xfrj
rfssjw fx ns ymj htqqjhyntsx fy Xjwat{ fsi Hmfrtzsn{.  Ymj qfyyjw sfrj
rfij rj ywjrgqj bmjs uwtstzshji g{ Mjsw{, fsi N mfxyjsji yt vzny
Rfyqthp, bnym bmnhm ymfy yjwwngqj xhjsj bfx ymzx fxxthnfyji.

Kwtr Ijwg{, xynqq otzwsj{nsl stwymbfwix, bj ufxxji ybt rtsymx ns
Hzrgjwqfsi fsi Bjxyrtwqfsi.  N htzqi stb fqrtxy kfsh{ r{xjqk frtsl ymj
Xbnxx rtzsyfnsx.  Ymj qnyyqj ufyhmjx tk xstb bmnhm {jy qnsljwji ts ymj
stwymjws xnijx tk ymj rtzsyfnsx, ymj qfpjx, fsi ymj ifxmnsl tk ymj
wthp{ xywjfrx bjwj fqq kfrnqnfw fsi ijfw xnlmyx yt rj.  Mjwj fqxt bj
rfij xtrj fhvzfnsyfshjx, bmt fqrtxy htsywnaji yt hmjfy rj nsyt
mfuunsjxx.  Ymj ijqnlmy tk Hqjwafq bfx uwtutwyntsfgq{ lwjfyjw ymfs
rnsj; mnx rnsi j{ufsiji ns ymj htrufs{ tk rjs tk yfqjsy, fsi mj ktzsi
ns mnx tbs sfyzwj lwjfyjw hfufhnynjx fsi wjxtzwhjx ymfs mj htzqi mfaj
nrflnsji mnrxjqk yt mfaj utxxjxxji bmnqj mj fxxthnfyji bnym mnx
nskjwntwx.  "N htzqi ufxx r{ qnkj mjwj," xfni mj yt rj; "fsi frtsl
ymjxj rtzsyfnsx N xmtzqi xhfwhjq{ wjlwjy Xbny{jwqfsi fsi ymj Wmnsj."

Gzy mj ktzsi ymfy f ywfajqqjw'x qnkj nx tsj ymfy nshqzijx rzhm ufns
frnixy nyx jsot{rjsyx.  Mnx kjjqnslx fwj ktwjajw ts ymj xywjyhm; fsi
bmjs mj gjlnsx yt xnsp nsyt wjutxj, mj knsix mnrxjqk tgqnlji yt vzny
ymfy ts bmnhm mj wjxyx ns uqjfxzwj ktw xtrjymnsl sjb, bmnhm flfns
jslfljx mnx fyyjsynts, fsi bmnhm fqxt mj ktwxfpjx ktw tymjw stajqynjx.

Bj mfi xhfwhjq{ anxnyji ymj afwntzx qfpjx tk Hzrgjwqfsi fsi Bjxyrtwqfsi
fsi htshjnaji fs fkkjhynts ktw xtrj tk ymj nsmfgnyfsyx bmjs ymj ujwnti
tk tzw fuutnsyrjsy bnym tzw Xhtyhm kwnjsi fuuwtfhmji, fsi bj qjky ymjr
yt ywfajq ts.  Ktw r{ tbs ufwy N bfx sty xtww{.  N mfi stb sjlqjhyji r{
uwtrnxj ktw xtrj ynrj, fsi N kjfwji ymj jkkjhyx tk ymj ifjrts'x
inxfuutnsyrjsy.  Mj rnlmy wjrfns ns Xbny{jwqfsi fsi bwjfp mnx ajsljfshj
ts r{ wjqfynajx.  Ymnx nijf uzwxzji rj fsi ytwrjsyji rj fy jajw{ rtrjsy
kwtr bmnhm N rnlmy tymjwbnxj mfaj xsfyhmji wjutxj fsi ujfhj.  N bfnyji
ktw r{ qjyyjwx bnym kjajwnxm nrufynjshj; nk ymj{ bjwj ijqf{ji N bfx
rnxjwfgqj fsi tajwhtrj g{ f ymtzxfsi kjfwx; fsi bmjs ymj{ fwwnaji fsi N
xfb ymj xzujwxhwnuynts tk Jqn{fgjym tw r{ kfymjw, N mfwiq{ ifwji yt
wjfi fsi fxhjwyfns r{ kfyj.  Xtrjynrjx N ymtzlmy ymfy ymj knjsi
ktqqtbji rj fsi rnlmy j{ujinyj r{ wjrnxxsjxx g{ rzwijwnsl r{ htrufsnts.
Bmjs ymjxj ymtzlmyx utxxjxxji rj, N btzqi sty vzny Mjsw{ ktw f rtrjsy,
gzy ktqqtbji mnr fx mnx xmfitb, yt uwtyjhy mnr kwtr ymj kfshnji wflj tk
mnx ijxywt{jw.  N kjqy fx nk N mfi htrrnyyji xtrj lwjfy hwnrj, ymj
htsxhntzxsjxx tk bmnhm mfzsyji rj.  N bfx lznqyqjxx, gzy N mfi nsijji
iwfbs itbs f mtwwngqj hzwxj zuts r{ mjfi, fx rtwyfq fx ymfy tk hwnrj.

N anxnyji Jinsgzwlm bnym qfslzni j{jx fsi rnsi; fsi {jy ymfy hny{ rnlmy
mfaj nsyjwjxyji ymj rtxy zsktwyzsfyj gjnsl.  Hqjwafq ini sty qnpj ny xt
bjqq fx T{ktwi, ktw ymj fsynvzny{ tk ymj qfyyjw hny{ bfx rtwj uqjfxnsl
yt mnr.  Gzy ymj gjfzy{ fsi wjlzqfwny{ tk ymj sjb ytbs tk Jinsgzwlm,
nyx wtrfsynh hfxyqj fsi nyx jsanwtsx, ymj rtxy ijqnlmykzq ns ymj btwqi,
Fwymzw'x Xjfy, Xy. Gjwsfwi'x Bjqq, fsi ymj Ujsyqfsi Mnqqx htrujsxfyji
mnr ktw ymj hmfslj fsi knqqji mnr bnym hmjjwkzqsjxx fsi firnwfynts. Gzy
N bfx nrufynjsy yt fwwnaj fy ymj yjwrnsfynts tk r{ otzwsj{.

Bj qjky Jinsgzwlm ns f bjjp, ufxxnsl ymwtzlm Htzufw, Xy. Fsiwjb'x, fsi
fqtsl ymj gfspx tk ymj Yf{, yt Ujwym, bmjwj tzw kwnjsi j{ujhyji zx.
Gzy N bfx ns st rtti yt qfzlm fsi yfqp bnym xywfsljwx tw jsyjw nsyt
ymjnw kjjqnslx tw uqfsx bnym ymj ltti mzrtzw j{ujhyji kwtr f lzjxy; fsi
fhhtwinslq{ N ytqi Hqjwafq ymfy N bnxmji yt rfpj ymj ytzw tk Xhtyqfsi
fqtsj.  "It {tz," xfni N, "jsot{ {tzwxjqk, fsi qjy ymnx gj tzw
wjsij{atzx.  N rf{ gj fgxjsy f rtsym tw ybt; gzy it sty nsyjwkjwj bnym
r{ rtyntsx, N jsywjfy {tz; qjfaj rj yt ujfhj fsi xtqnyzij ktw f xmtwy
ynrj; fsi bmjs N wjyzws, N mtuj ny bnqq gj bnym f qnlmyjw mjfwy, rtwj
htsljsnfq yt {tzw tbs yjrujw."

Mjsw{ bnxmji yt inxxzfij rj, gzy xjjnsl rj gjsy ts ymnx uqfs, hjfxji yt
wjrtsxywfyj.  Mj jsywjfyji rj yt bwnyj tkyjs.  "N mfi wfymjw gj bnym
{tz," mj xfni, "ns {tzw xtqnyfw{ wfrgqjx, ymfs bnym ymjxj Xhtyhm
ujtuqj, bmtr N it sty pstb; mfxyjs, ymjs, r{ ijfw  kwnjsi, yt wjyzws,
ymfy N rf{ flfns kjjq r{xjqk xtrjbmfy fy mtrj, bmnhm N hfssty it ns
{tzw fgxjshj."

Mfansl ufwyji kwtr r{ kwnjsi, N ijyjwrnsji yt anxny xtrj wjrtyj xuty tk
Xhtyqfsi fsi knsnxm r{ btwp ns xtqnyzij.  N ini sty itzgy gzy ymfy ymj
rtsxyjw ktqqtbji rj fsi btzqi inxhtajw mnrxjqk yt rj bmjs N xmtzqi mfaj
knsnxmji, ymfy mj rnlmy wjhjnaj mnx htrufsnts.  Bnym ymnx wjxtqzynts N
ywfajwxji ymj stwymjws mnlmqfsix fsi kn{ji ts tsj tk ymj wjrtyjxy tk
ymj Twpsj{x fx ymj xhjsj tk r{ qfgtzwx.  Ny bfx f uqfhj knyyji ktw xzhm
f btwp, gjnsl mfwiq{ rtwj ymfs f wthp bmtxj mnlm xnijx bjwj htsynszfqq{
gjfyjs zuts g{ ymj bfajx.  Ymj xtnq bfx gfwwjs, xhfwhjq{ fkktwinsl
ufxyzwj ktw f kjb rnxjwfgqj htbx, fsi tfyrjfq ktw nyx nsmfgnyfsyx,
bmnhm htsxnxyji tk knaj ujwxtsx, bmtxj lfzsy fsi xhwfll{ qnrgx lfaj
ytpjsx tk ymjnw rnxjwfgqj kfwj.  Ajljyfgqjx fsi gwjfi, bmjs ymj{
nsizqlji ns xzhm qz{zwnjx, fsi jajs kwjxm bfyjw, bfx yt gj uwthzwji
kwtr ymj rfnsqfsi, bmnhm bfx fgtzy knaj rnqjx inxyfsy.

Ts ymj bmtqj nxqfsi ymjwj bjwj gzy ymwjj rnxjwfgqj mzyx, fsi tsj tk
ymjxj bfx afhfsy bmjs N fwwnaji.  Ymnx N mnwji.  Ny htsyfnsji gzy ybt
wttrx, fsi ymjxj j{mngnyji fqq ymj xvzfqnisjxx tk ymj rtxy rnxjwfgqj
ujszw{.  Ymj ymfyhm mfi kfqqjs ns, ymj bfqqx bjwj zsuqfxyjwji, fsi ymj
ittw bfx tkk nyx mnsljx.  N twijwji ny yt gj wjufnwji, gtzlmy xtrj
kzwsnyzwj, fsi yttp utxxjxxnts, fs nshnijsy bmnhm btzqi itzgyqjxx mfaj
thhfxntsji xtrj xzwuwnxj mfi sty fqq ymj xjsxjx tk ymj htyyfljwx gjjs
gjszrgji g{ bfsy fsi xvzfqni utajwy{.  Fx ny bfx, N qnaji zslf{ji fy
fsi zsrtqjxyji, mfwiq{ ymfspji ktw ymj unyyfshj tk ktti fsi hqtymjx
bmnhm N lfaj, xt rzhm itjx xzkkjwnsl gqzsy jajs ymj htfwxjxy xjsxfyntsx
tk rjs.

Ns ymnx wjywjfy N ijatyji ymj rtwsnsl yt qfgtzw; gzy ns ymj jajsnsl,
bmjs ymj bjfymjw ujwrnyyji, N bfqpji ts ymj xyts{ gjfhm tk ymj xjf yt
qnxyjs yt ymj bfajx fx ymj{ wtfwji fsi ifxmji fy r{ kjjy.  Ny bfx f
rtstytstzx {jy jajw-hmfslnsl xhjsj.  N ymtzlmy tk Xbny{jwqfsi; ny bfx
kfw inkkjwjsy kwtr ymnx ijxtqfyj fsi fuufqqnsl qfsixhfuj.  Nyx mnqqx
fwj htajwji bnym ansjx, fsi nyx htyyfljx fwj xhfyyjwji ymnhpq{ ns ymj
uqfnsx.  Nyx kfnw qfpjx wjkqjhy f gqzj fsi ljsyqj xp{, fsi bmjs
ywtzgqji g{ ymj bnsix, ymjnw yzrzqy nx gzy fx ymj uqf{ tk f qnajq{
nskfsy bmjs htrufwji yt ymj wtfwnslx tk ymj lnfsy thjfs.

Ns ymnx rfssjw N inxywngzyji r{ thhzufyntsx bmjs N knwxy fwwnaji, gzy
fx N uwthjjiji ns r{ qfgtzw, ny gjhfrj jajw{ if{ rtwj mtwwngqj fsi
nwpxtrj yt rj.  Xtrjynrjx N htzqi sty uwjafnq ts r{xjqk yt jsyjw r{
qfgtwfytw{ ktw xjajwfq if{x, fsi fy tymjw ynrjx N ytnqji if{ fsi snlmy
ns twijw yt htruqjyj r{ btwp.  Ny bfx, nsijji, f knqym{ uwthjxx ns
bmnhm N bfx jslflji.  Izwnsl r{ knwxy j{ujwnrjsy, f pnsi tk
jsymzxnfxynh kwjs{{ mfi gqnsiji rj yt ymj mtwwtw tk r{ jruqt{rjsy; r{
rnsi bfx nsyjsyq{ kn{ji ts ymj htsxzrrfynts tk r{ qfgtzw, fsi r{ j{jx
bjwj xmzy yt ymj mtwwtw tk r{ uwthjjinslx.  Gzy stb N bjsy yt ny ns
htqi gqtti, fsi r{ mjfwy tkyjs xnhpjsji fy ymj btwp tk r{ mfsix.

Ymzx xnyzfyji, jruqt{ji ns ymj rtxy ijyjxyfgqj thhzufynts, nrrjwxji ns
f xtqnyzij bmjwj stymnsl htzqi ktw fs nsxyfsy hfqq r{ fyyjsynts kwtr
ymj fhyzfq xhjsj ns bmnhm N bfx jslflji, r{ xunwnyx gjhfrj zsjvzfq; N
lwjb wjxyqjxx fsi sjwatzx.  Jajw{ rtrjsy N kjfwji yt rjjy r{
ujwxjhzytw.  Xtrjynrjx N xfy bnym r{ j{jx kn{ji ts ymj lwtzsi, kjfwnsl
yt wfnxj ymjr qjxy ymj{ xmtzqi jshtzsyjw ymj tgojhy bmnhm N xt rzhm
iwjfiji yt gjmtqi.  N kjfwji yt bfsijw kwtr ymj xnlmy tk r{ kjqqtb
hwjfyzwjx qjxy bmjs fqtsj mj xmtzqi htrj yt hqfnr mnx htrufsnts.

Ns ymj rjfs ynrj N btwpji ts, fsi r{ qfgtzw bfx fqwjfi{ htsxnijwfgq{
fiafshji.  N qttpji ytbfwix nyx htruqjynts bnym f ywjrzqtzx fsi jfljw
mtuj, bmnhm N ifwji sty ywzxy r{xjqk yt vzjxynts gzy bmnhm bfx
nsyjwrn{ji bnym tgxhzwj ktwjgtinslx tk janq ymfy rfij r{ mjfwy xnhpjs
ns r{ gtxtr.



Hmfuyjw 20

N xfy tsj jajsnsl ns r{ qfgtwfytw{; ymj xzs mfi xjy, fsi ymj rtts bfx
ozxy wnxnsl kwtr ymj xjf; N mfi sty xzkknhnjsy qnlmy ktw r{ jruqt{rjsy,
fsi N wjrfnsji niqj, ns f ufzxj tk htsxnijwfynts tk bmjymjw N xmtzqi
qjfaj r{ qfgtzw ktw ymj snlmy tw mfxyjs nyx htshqzxnts g{ fs
zswjrnyynsl fyyjsynts yt ny.  Fx N xfy, f ywfns tk wjkqjhynts thhzwwji
yt rj bmnhm qji rj yt htsxnijw ymj jkkjhyx tk bmfy N bfx stb itnsl.
Ymwjj {jfwx gjktwj, N bfx jslflji ns ymj xfrj rfssjw fsi mfi hwjfyji f
knjsi bmtxj zsufwfqqjqji gfwgfwny{ mfi ijxtqfyji r{ mjfwy fsi knqqji ny
ktwjajw bnym ymj gnyyjwjxy wjrtwxj.  N bfx stb fgtzy yt ktwr fstymjw
gjnsl tk bmtxj inxutxnyntsx N bfx fqnpj nlstwfsy; xmj rnlmy gjhtrj yjs
ymtzxfsi ynrjx rtwj rfqnlsfsy ymfs mjw rfyj fsi ijqnlmy, ktw nyx tbs
xfpj, ns rzwijw fsi bwjyhmjisjxx.  Mj mfi xbtws yt vzny ymj
sjnlmgtzwmtti tk rfs fsi mnij mnrxjqk ns ijxjwyx, gzy xmj mfi sty; fsi
xmj, bmt ns fqq uwtgfgnqny{ bfx yt gjhtrj f ymnspnsl fsi wjfxtsnsl
fsnrfq, rnlmy wjkzxj yt htruq{ bnym f htrufhy rfij gjktwj mjw hwjfynts.
Ymj{ rnlmy jajs mfyj jfhm tymjw; ymj hwjfyzwj bmt fqwjfi{ qnaji qtfymji
mnx tbs ijktwrny{, fsi rnlmy mj sty htshjnaj f lwjfyjw fgmtwwjshj ktw
ny bmjs ny hfrj gjktwj mnx j{jx ns ymj kjrfqj ktwr?  Xmj fqxt rnlmy
yzws bnym inxlzxy kwtr mnr yt ymj xzujwntw gjfzy{ tk rfs; xmj rnlmy
vzny mnr, fsi mj gj flfns fqtsj, j{fxujwfyji g{ ymj kwjxm uwtathfynts
tk gjnsl ijxjwyji g{ tsj tk mnx tbs xujhnjx.  Jajs nk ymj{ bjwj yt
qjfaj Jzwtuj fsi nsmfgny ymj ijxjwyx tk ymj sjb btwqi, {jy tsj tk ymj
knwxy wjxzqyx tk ymtxj x{rufymnjx ktw bmnhm ymj ifjrts ymnwxyji btzqi
gj hmnqiwjs, fsi f wfhj tk ijanqx btzqi gj uwtuflfyji zuts ymj jfwym
bmt rnlmy rfpj ymj ajw{ j{nxyjshj tk ymj xujhnjx tk rfs f htsinynts
uwjhfwntzx fsi kzqq tk yjwwtw.  Mfi N wnlmy, ktw r{ tbs gjsjkny, yt
nskqnhy ymnx hzwxj zuts jajwqfxynsl ljsjwfyntsx?  N mfi gjktwj gjjs
rtaji g{ ymj xtumnxrx tk ymj gjnsl N mfi hwjfyji; N mfi gjjs xywzhp
xjsxjqjxx g{ mnx knjsinxm ymwjfyx; gzy stb, ktw ymj knwxy ynrj, ymj
bnhpjisjxx tk r{ uwtrnxj gzwxy zuts rj; N xmziijwji yt ymnsp ymfy
kzyzwj fljx rnlmy hzwxj rj fx ymjnw ujxy, bmtxj xjqknxmsjxx mfi sty
mjxnyfyji yt gz{ nyx tbs ujfhj fy ymj uwnhj, ujwmfux, tk ymj j{nxyjshj
tk ymj bmtqj mzrfs wfhj.

N ywjrgqji fsi r{ mjfwy kfnqji bnymns rj, bmjs, ts qttpnsl zu, N xfb g{
ymj qnlmy tk ymj rtts ymj ifjrts fy ymj hfxjrjsy.  F lmfxyq{ lwns
bwnspqji mnx qnux fx mj lf{ji ts rj, bmjwj N xfy kzqknqqnsl ymj yfxp
bmnhm mj mfi fqqtyyji yt rj.  [jx, mj mfi ktqqtbji rj ns r{ ywfajqx; mj
mfi qtnyjwji ns ktwjxyx, mni mnrxjqk ns hfajx, tw yfpjs wjkzlj ns bnij
fsi ijxjwy mjfymx; fsi mj stb hfrj yt rfwp r{ uwtlwjxx fsi hqfnr ymj
kzqknqrjsy tk r{ uwtrnxj.

Fx N qttpji ts mnr, mnx htzsyjsfshj j{uwjxxji ymj zyrtxy j{yjsy tk
rfqnhj fsi ywjfhmjw{.  N ymtzlmy bnym f xjsxfynts tk rfisjxx ts r{
uwtrnxj tk hwjfynsl fstymjw qnpj yt mnr, fsi ywjrgqnsl bnym ufxxnts,
ytwj yt unjhjx ymj ymnsl ts bmnhm N bfx jslflji.  Ymj bwjyhm xfb rj
ijxywt{ ymj hwjfyzwj ts bmtxj kzyzwj j{nxyjshj mj ijujsiji ktw
mfuunsjxx, fsi bnym f mtbq tk ijanqnxm ijxufnw fsi wjajslj, bnymiwjb.

N qjky ymj wttr, fsi qthpnsl ymj ittw, rfij f xtqjrs atb ns r{ tbs
mjfwy sjajw yt wjxzrj r{ qfgtzwx; fsi ymjs, bnym ywjrgqnsl xyjux, N
xtzlmy r{ tbs fufwyrjsy. N bfx fqtsj; stsj bjwj sjfw rj yt inxxnufyj
ymj lqttr fsi wjqnjaj rj kwtr ymj xnhpjsnsl tuuwjxxnts tk ymj rtxy
yjwwngqj wjajwnjx.

Xjajwfq mtzwx ufxxji, fsi N wjrfnsji sjfw r{ bnsitb lf{nsl ts ymj xjf;
ny bfx fqrtxy rtyntsqjxx, ktw ymj bnsix bjwj mzxmji, fsi fqq sfyzwj
wjutxji zsijw ymj j{j tk ymj vznjy rtts.  F kjb knxmnsl ajxxjqx fqtsj
xujhpji ymj bfyjw, fsi stb fsi ymjs ymj ljsyqj gwjj{j bfkyji ymj xtzsi
tk atnhjx fx ymj knxmjwrjs hfqqji yt tsj fstymjw.  N kjqy ymj xnqjshj,
fqymtzlm N bfx mfwiq{ htsxhntzx tk nyx j{ywjrj uwtkzsiny{, zsynq r{ jfw
bfx xziijsq{ fwwjxyji g{ ymj ufiiqnsl tk tfwx sjfw ymj xmtwj, fsi f
ujwxts qfsiji hqtxj yt r{ mtzxj.

Ns f kjb rnszyjx fkyjw, N mjfwi ymj hwjfpnsl tk r{ ittw, fx nk xtrj tsj
jsijfatzwji yt tujs ny xtkyq{.  N ywjrgqji kwtr mjfi yt ktty; N kjqy f
uwjxjsynrjsy tk bmt ny bfx fsi bnxmji yt wtzxj tsj tk ymj ujfxfsyx bmt
ibjqy ns f htyyflj sty kfw kwtr rnsj; gzy N bfx tajwhtrj g{ ymj
xjsxfynts tk mjquqjxxsjxx, xt tkyjs kjqy ns kwnlmykzq iwjfrx, bmjs {tz
ns afns jsijfatzw yt kq{ kwtr fs nrujsinsl ifsljw, fsi bfx wttyji yt
ymj xuty. Uwjxjsyq{ N mjfwi ymj xtzsi tk kttyxyjux fqtsl ymj ufxxflj;
ymj ittw tujsji, fsi ymj bwjyhm bmtr N iwjfiji fuujfwji.

Xmzyynsl ymj ittw, mj fuuwtfhmji rj fsi xfni ns f xrtymjwji atnhj, "[tz
mfaj ijxywt{ji ymj btwp bmnhm {tz gjlfs; bmfy nx ny ymfy {tz nsyjsi?
It {tz ifwj yt gwjfp {tzw uwtrnxj?  N mfaj jsizwji ytnq fsi rnxjw{; N
qjky Xbny{jwqfsi bnym {tz; N hwjuy fqtsl ymj xmtwjx tk ymj Wmnsj, frtsl
nyx bnqqtb nxqfsix fsi tajw ymj xzrrnyx tk nyx mnqqx.  N mfaj ibjqy
rfs{ rtsymx ns ymj mjfymx tk Jslqfsi fsi frtsl ymj ijxjwyx tk Xhtyqfsi.
N mfaj jsizwji nshfqhzqfgqj kfynlzj, fsi htqi, fsi mzsljw; it {tz ifwj
ijxywt{ r{ mtujx?"

"Gjltsj!  N it gwjfp r{ uwtrnxj; sjajw bnqq N hwjfyj fstymjw qnpj
{tzwxjqk, jvzfq ns ijktwrny{ fsi bnhpjisjxx."

"Xqfaj, N gjktwj wjfxtsji bnym {tz, gzy {tz mfaj uwtaji {tzwxjqk
zsbtwym{ tk r{ htsijxhjsxnts.  Wjrjrgjw ymfy N mfaj utbjw; {tz gjqnjaj
{tzwxjqk rnxjwfgqj, gzy N hfs rfpj {tz xt bwjyhmji ymfy ymj qnlmy tk
if{ bnqq gj mfyjkzq yt {tz.  [tz fwj r{ hwjfytw, gzy N fr {tzw rfxyjw;
tgj{!"

"Ymj mtzw tk r{ nwwjxtqzynts nx ufxy, fsi ymj ujwnti tk {tzw utbjw nx
fwwnaji.  [tzw ymwjfyx hfssty rtaj rj yt it fs fhy tk bnhpjisjxx; gzy
ymj{ htsknwr rj ns f ijyjwrnsfynts tk sty hwjfynsl {tz f htrufsnts ns
anhj.  Xmfqq N, ns httq gqtti, xjy qttxj zuts ymj jfwym f ifjrts bmtxj
ijqnlmy nx ns ijfym fsi bwjyhmjisjxx?  Gjltsj!  N fr knwr, fsi {tzw
btwix bnqq tsq{ j{fxujwfyj r{ wflj."

Ymj rtsxyjw xfb r{ ijyjwrnsfynts ns r{ kfhj fsi lsfxmji mnx yjjym ns
ymj nrutyjshj tk fsljw.  "Xmfqq jfhm rfs," hwnji mj, "knsi f bnkj ktw
mnx gtxtr, fsi jfhm gjfxy mfaj mnx rfyj, fsi N gj fqtsj?  N mfi
kjjqnslx tk fkkjhynts, fsi ymj{ bjwj wjvznyji g{ ijyjxyfynts fsi xhtws.
Rfs!  [tz rf{ mfyj, gzy gjbfwj!  [tzw mtzwx bnqq ufxx ns iwjfi fsi
rnxjw{, fsi xtts ymj gtqy  bnqq kfqq bmnhm rzxy wfanxm kwtr {tz {tzw
mfuunsjxx ktwjajw.  Fwj {tz yt gj mfuu{ bmnqj N lwtajq ns ymj nsyjsxny{
tk r{ bwjyhmjisjxx?  [tz hfs gqfxy r{ tymjw ufxxntsx, gzy wjajslj
wjrfnsx--wjajslj, mjshjktwym ijfwjw ymfs qnlmy tw ktti!  N rf{ inj, gzy
knwxy {tz, r{ y{wfsy fsi ytwrjsytw, xmfqq hzwxj ymj xzs ymfy lf{jx ts
{tzw rnxjw{.  Gjbfwj, ktw N fr kjfwqjxx fsi ymjwjktwj utbjwkzq.  N bnqq
bfyhm bnym ymj bnqnsjxx tk f xsfpj, ymfy N rf{ xynsl bnym nyx ajstr.
Rfs, {tz xmfqq wjujsy tk ymj nsozwnjx {tz nskqnhy."

"Ijanq, hjfxj; fsi it sty utnxts ymj fnw bnym ymjxj xtzsix tk rfqnhj.
N mfaj ijhqfwji r{ wjxtqzynts yt {tz, fsi N fr st htbfwi yt gjsi
gjsjfym btwix.  Qjfaj rj; N fr nsj{twfgqj."

"Ny nx bjqq.  N lt; gzy wjrjrgjw, N xmfqq gj bnym {tz ts {tzw
bjiinsl-snlmy."

N xyfwyji ktwbfwi fsi j{hqfnrji, "Anqqfns!  Gjktwj {tz xnls r{
ijfym-bfwwfsy, gj xzwj ymfy {tz fwj {tzwxjqk xfkj."

N btzqi mfaj xjn{ji mnr, gzy mj jqziji rj fsi vznyyji ymj mtzxj bnym
uwjhnunyfynts.  Ns f kjb rtrjsyx N xfb mnr ns mnx gtfy, bmnhm xmty
fhwtxx ymj bfyjwx bnym fs fwwtb{ xbnkysjxx fsi bfx xtts qtxy frnixy ymj
bfajx.

Fqq bfx flfns xnqjsy, gzy mnx btwix wfsl ns r{ jfwx.  N gzwsji bnym
wflj yt uzwxzj ymj rzwijwjw tk r{ ujfhj fsi uwjhnunyfyj mnr nsyt ymj
thjfs.  N bfqpji zu fsi itbs r{ wttr mfxynq{ fsi ujwyzwgji, bmnqj r{
nrflnsfynts htsozwji zu f ymtzxfsi nrfljx yt ytwrjsy fsi xynsl rj.  Bm{
mfi N sty ktqqtbji mnr fsi hqtxji bnym mnr ns rtwyfq xywnkj?  Gzy N mfi
xzkkjwji mnr yt ijufwy, fsi mj mfi inwjhyji mnx htzwxj ytbfwix ymj
rfnsqfsi.  N xmziijwji yt ymnsp bmt rnlmy gj ymj sj{y anhynr xfhwnknhji
yt mnx nsxfynfyj wjajslj.  Fsi ymjs N ymtzlmy flfns tk mnx btwix--"N
BNQQ GJ BNYM [TZ TS [TZW BJIINSL-SNLMY."  Ymfy, ymjs, bfx ymj ujwnti
kn{ji ktw ymj kzqknqrjsy tk r{ ijxyns{.  Ns ymfy mtzw N xmtzqi inj fsi
fy tshj xfynxk{ fsi j{ynslznxm mnx rfqnhj.  Ymj uwtxujhy ini sty rtaj
rj yt kjfw; {jy bmjs N ymtzlmy tk r{ gjqtaji Jqn{fgjym, tk mjw yjfwx
fsi jsiqjxx xtwwtb, bmjs xmj xmtzqi knsi mjw qtajw xt gfwgfwtzxq{
xsfyhmji kwtr mjw, yjfwx, ymj knwxy N mfi xmji ktw rfs{ rtsymx,
xywjfrji kwtr r{ j{jx, fsi N wjxtqaji sty yt kfqq gjktwj r{ jsjr{
bnymtzy f gnyyjw xywzllqj.

Ymj snlmy ufxxji fbf{, fsi ymj xzs wtxj kwtr ymj thjfs; r{ kjjqnslx
gjhfrj hfqrjw, nk ny rf{ gj hfqqji hfqrsjxx bmjs ymj antqjshj tk wflj
xnspx nsyt ymj ijuymx tk ijxufnw.  N qjky ymj mtzxj, ymj mtwwni xhjsj
tk ymj qfxy snlmy'x htsyjsynts, fsi bfqpji ts ymj gjfhm tk ymj xjf,
bmnhm N fqrtxy wjlfwiji fx fs nsxzujwfgqj gfwwnjw gjybjjs rj fsi r{
kjqqtb hwjfyzwjx; sf{, f bnxm ymfy xzhm xmtzqi uwtaj ymj kfhy xytqj
fhwtxx rj.

N ijxnwji ymfy N rnlmy ufxx r{ qnkj ts ymfy gfwwjs wthp, bjfwnq{, ny nx
ywzj, gzy zsnsyjwwzuyji g{ fs{ xziijs xmthp tk rnxjw{.  Nk N wjyzwsji,
ny bfx yt gj xfhwnknhji tw yt xjj ymtxj bmtr N rtxy qtaji inj zsijw ymj
lwfxu tk f ifjrts bmtr N mfi r{xjqk hwjfyji.

N bfqpji fgtzy ymj nxqj qnpj f wjxyqjxx xujhywj, xjufwfyji kwtr fqq ny
qtaji fsi rnxjwfgqj ns ymj xjufwfynts.  Bmjs ny gjhfrj stts, fsi ymj
xzs wtxj mnlmjw, N qf{ itbs ts ymj lwfxx fsi bfx tajwutbjwji g{ f ijju
xqjju.  N mfi gjjs fbfpj ymj bmtqj tk ymj uwjhjinsl snlmy, r{ sjwajx
bjwj flnyfyji, fsi r{ j{jx nskqfrji g{ bfyhmnsl fsi rnxjw{.  Ymj xqjju
nsyt bmnhm N stb xfsp wjkwjxmji rj; fsi bmjs N fbtpj, N flfns kjqy fx
nk N gjqtslji yt f wfhj tk mzrfs gjnslx qnpj r{xjqk, fsi N gjlfs yt
wjkqjhy zuts bmfy mfi ufxxji bnym lwjfyjw htrutxzwj; {jy xynqq ymj
btwix tk ymj knjsi wfsl ns r{ jfwx qnpj f ijfym-psjqq; ymj{ fuujfwji
qnpj f iwjfr, {jy inxynshy fsi tuuwjxxnaj fx f wjfqny{.

Ymj xzs mfi kfw ijxhjsiji, fsi N xynqq xfy ts ymj xmtwj, xfynxk{nsl r{
fuujynyj, bmnhm mfi gjhtrj wfajstzx, bnym fs tfyjs hfpj, bmjs N xfb f
knxmnsl-gtfy qfsi hqtxj yt rj, fsi tsj tk ymj rjs gwtzlmy rj f ufhpjy;
ny htsyfnsji qjyyjwx kwtr Ljsjaf, fsi tsj kwtr Hqjwafq jsywjfynsl rj yt
otns mnr.  Mj xfni ymfy mj bfx bjfwnsl fbf{ mnx ynrj kwznyqjxxq{ bmjwj
mj bfx, ymfy qjyyjwx kwtr ymj kwnjsix mj mfi ktwrji ns Qtsits ijxnwji
mnx wjyzws yt htruqjyj ymj sjltynfynts ymj{ mfi jsyjwji nsyt ktw mnx
Nsinfs jsyjwuwnxj.  Mj htzqi sty fs{ qtsljw ijqf{ mnx ijufwyzwj; gzy fx
mnx otzwsj{ yt Qtsits rnlmy gj ktqqtbji, jajs xttsjw ymfs mj stb
htsojhyzwji, g{ mnx qtsljw at{flj, mj jsywjfyji rj yt gjxytb fx rzhm tk
r{ xthnjy{ ts mnr fx N htzqi xufwj.  Mj gjxtzlmy rj, ymjwjktwj, yt
qjfaj r{ xtqnyfw{ nxqj fsi yt rjjy mnr fy Ujwym, ymfy bj rnlmy uwthjji
xtzymbfwix ytljymjw.  Ymnx qjyyjw ns f ijlwjj wjhfqqji rj yt qnkj, fsi
N ijyjwrnsji yt vzny r{ nxqfsi fy ymj j{unwfynts tk ybt if{x.  [jy,
gjktwj N ijufwyji, ymjwj bfx f yfxp yt ujwktwr, ts bmnhm N xmziijwji yt
wjkqjhy; N rzxy ufhp zu r{ hmjrnhfq nsxywzrjsyx, fsi ktw ymfy uzwutxj N
rzxy jsyjw ymj wttr bmnhm mfi gjjs ymj xhjsj tk r{ tintzx btwp, fsi N
rzxy mfsiqj ymtxj zyjsxnqx ymj xnlmy tk bmnhm bfx xnhpjsnsl yt rj. Ymj
sj{y rtwsnsl, fy if{gwjfp, N xzrrtsji xzkknhnjsy htzwflj fsi zsqthpji
ymj ittw tk r{ qfgtwfytw{.  Ymj wjrfnsx tk ymj mfqk-knsnxmji hwjfyzwj,
bmtr N mfi ijxywt{ji, qf{ xhfyyjwji ts ymj kqttw, fsi N fqrtxy kjqy fx
nk N mfi rfslqji ymj qnansl kqjxm tk f mzrfs gjnsl.  N ufzxji yt
htqqjhy r{xjqk fsi ymjs jsyjwji ymj hmfrgjw.  Bnym ywjrgqnsl mfsi N
htsaj{ji ymj nsxywzrjsyx tzy tk ymj wttr, gzy N wjkqjhyji ymfy N tzlmy
sty yt qjfaj ymj wjqnhx tk r{ btwp yt j{hnyj ymj mtwwtw fsi xzxunhnts
tk ymj ujfxfsyx; fsi N fhhtwinslq{ uzy ymjr nsyt f gfxpjy, bnym f lwjfy
vzfsyny{ tk xytsjx, fsi qf{nsl ymjr zu, ijyjwrnsji yt ymwtb ymjr nsyt
ymj xjf ymfy ajw{ snlmy; fsi ns ymj rjfsynrj N xfy zuts ymj gjfhm,
jruqt{ji ns hqjfsnsl fsi fwwfslnsl r{ hmjrnhfq fuufwfyzx.

Stymnsl htzqi gj rtwj htruqjyj ymfs ymj fqyjwfynts ymfy mfi yfpjs uqfhj
ns r{ kjjqnslx xnshj ymj snlmy tk ymj fuujfwfshj tk ymj ifjrts.  N mfi
gjktwj wjlfwiji r{ uwtrnxj bnym f lqttr{ ijxufnw fx f ymnsl ymfy, bnym
bmfyjajw htsxjvzjshjx, rzxy gj kzqknqqji; gzy N stb kjqy fx nk f knqr
mfi gjjs yfpjs kwtr gjktwj r{ j{jx fsi ymfy N ktw ymj knwxy ynrj xfb
hqjfwq{.  Ymj nijf tk wjsjbnsl r{ qfgtzwx ini sty ktw tsj nsxyfsy thhzw
yt rj; ymj ymwjfy N mfi mjfwi bjnlmji ts r{ ymtzlmyx, gzy N ini sty
wjkqjhy ymfy f atqzsyfw{ fhy tk rnsj htzqi fajwy ny.  N mfi wjxtqaji ns
r{ tbs rnsi ymfy yt hwjfyj fstymjw qnpj ymj knjsi N mfi knwxy rfij
btzqi gj fs fhy tk ymj gfxjxy fsi rtxy fywthntzx xjqknxmsjxx, fsi N
gfsnxmji kwtr r{ rnsi jajw{ ymtzlmy ymfy htzqi qjfi yt f inkkjwjsy
htshqzxnts.

Gjybjjs ybt fsi ymwjj ns ymj rtwsnsl ymj rtts wtxj; fsi N ymjs, uzyynsl
r{ gfxpjy fgtfwi f qnyyqj xpnkk, xfnqji tzy fgtzy ktzw rnqjx kwtr ymj
xmtwj.  Ymj xhjsj bfx ujwkjhyq{ xtqnyfw{; f kjb gtfyx bjwj wjyzwsnsl
ytbfwix qfsi, gzy N xfnqji fbf{ kwtr ymjr.  N kjqy fx nk N bfx fgtzy
ymj htrrnxxnts tk f iwjfikzq hwnrj fsi fatniji bnym xmziijwnsl fs{njy{
fs{ jshtzsyjw bnym r{ kjqqtb hwjfyzwjx.  Fy tsj ynrj ymj rtts, bmnhm
mfi gjktwj gjjs hqjfw, bfx xziijsq{ tajwxuwjfi g{ f ymnhp hqtzi, fsi N
yttp fiafsyflj tk ymj rtrjsy tk ifwpsjxx fsi hfxy r{ gfxpjy nsyt ymj
xjf; N qnxyjsji yt ymj lzwlqnsl xtzsi fx ny xfsp fsi ymjs xfnqji fbf{
kwtr ymj xuty.  Ymj xp{ gjhfrj hqtziji, gzy ymj fnw bfx uzwj, fqymtzlm
hmnqqji g{ ymj stwymjfxy gwjj{j ymfy bfx ymjs wnxnsl.  Gzy ny wjkwjxmji
rj fsi knqqji rj bnym xzhm flwjjfgqj xjsxfyntsx ymfy N wjxtqaji yt
uwtqtsl r{ xyf{ ts ymj bfyjw, fsi kn{nsl ymj wziijw ns f inwjhy
utxnynts, xywjyhmji r{xjqk fy ymj gtyytr tk ymj gtfy.  Hqtzix mni ymj
rtts, jajw{ymnsl bfx tgxhzwj, fsi N mjfwi tsq{ ymj xtzsi tk ymj gtfy fx
nyx pjjq hzy ymwtzlm ymj bfajx; ymj rzwrzw qzqqji rj, fsi ns f xmtwy
ynrj N xqjuy xtzsiq{. N it sty pstb mtb qtsl N wjrfnsji ns ymnx
xnyzfynts, gzy bmjs N fbtpj N ktzsi ymfy ymj xzs mfi fqwjfi{ rtzsyji
htsxnijwfgq{.  Ymj bnsi bfx mnlm, fsi ymj bfajx htsynszfqq{ ymwjfyjsji
ymj xfkjy{ tk r{ qnyyqj xpnkk.  N ktzsi ymfy ymj bnsi bfx stwymjfxy fsi
rzxy mfaj iwnajs rj kfw kwtr ymj htfxy kwtr bmnhm N mfi jrgfwpji.  N
jsijfatzwji yt hmfslj r{ htzwxj gzy vznhpq{ ktzsi ymfy nk N flfns rfij
ymj fyyjruy ymj gtfy btzqi gj nsxyfsyq{ knqqji bnym bfyjw.  Ymzx
xnyzfyji, r{ tsq{ wjxtzwhj bfx yt iwnaj gjktwj ymj bnsi.  N htskjxx
ymfy N kjqy f kjb xjsxfyntsx tk yjwwtw.  N mfi st htrufxx bnym rj fsi
bfx xt xqjsijwq{ fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj ljtlwfum{ tk ymnx ufwy tk ymj
btwqi ymfy ymj xzs bfx tk qnyyqj gjsjkny yt rj.  N rnlmy gj iwnajs nsyt
ymj bnij Fyqfsynh fsi kjjq fqq ymj ytwyzwjx tk xyfwafynts tw gj
xbfqqtbji zu ns ymj nrrjfxzwfgqj bfyjwx ymfy wtfwji fsi gzkkjyji fwtzsi
rj.  N mfi fqwjfi{ gjjs tzy rfs{ mtzwx fsi kjqy ymj ytwrjsy tk f
gzwsnsl ymnwxy, f uwjqzij yt r{ tymjw xzkkjwnslx.  N qttpji ts ymj
mjfajsx, bmnhm bjwj htajwji g{ hqtzix ymfy kqjb gjktwj ymj bnsi, tsq{
yt gj wjuqfhji g{ tymjwx; N qttpji zuts ymj xjf; ny bfx yt gj r{ lwfaj.
"Knjsi," N j{hqfnrji, "{tzw yfxp nx fqwjfi{ kzqknqqji!"  N ymtzlmy tk
Jqn{fgjym, tk r{ kfymjw, fsi tk Hqjwafq--fqq qjky gjmnsi, ts bmtr ymj
rtsxyjw rnlmy xfynxk{ mnx xfslznsfw{ fsi rjwhnqjxx ufxxntsx.  Ymnx nijf
uqzslji rj nsyt f wjajwnj xt ijxufnwnsl fsi kwnlmykzq ymfy jajs stb,
bmjs ymj xhjsj nx ts ymj utnsy tk hqtxnsl gjktwj rj ktwjajw, N xmziijw
yt wjkqjhy ts ny.

Xtrj mtzwx ufxxji ymzx; gzy g{ ijlwjjx, fx ymj xzs ijhqnsji ytbfwix ymj
mtwn{ts, ymj bnsi inji fbf{ nsyt f ljsyqj gwjj{j fsi ymj xjf gjhfrj
kwjj kwtr gwjfpjwx.  Gzy ymjxj lfaj uqfhj yt f mjfa{ xbjqq; N kjqy xnhp
fsi mfwiq{ fgqj yt mtqi ymj wziijw, bmjs xziijsq{ N xfb f qnsj tk mnlm
qfsi ytbfwix ymj xtzym.

Fqrtxy xujsy, fx N bfx, g{ kfynlzj fsi ymj iwjfikzq xzxujsxj N jsizwji
ktw xjajwfq mtzwx, ymnx xziijs hjwyfnsy{ tk qnkj wzxmji qnpj f kqtti tk
bfwr ot{ yt r{ mjfwy, fsi yjfwx lzxmji kwtr r{ j{jx.

Mtb rzyfgqj fwj tzw kjjqnslx, fsi mtb xywfslj nx ymfy hqnslnsl qtaj bj
mfaj tk qnkj jajs ns ymj j{hjxx tk rnxjw{!  N htsxywzhyji fstymjw xfnq
bnym f ufwy tk r{ iwjxx fsi jfljwq{ xyjjwji r{ htzwxj ytbfwix ymj qfsi.
Ny mfi f bnqi fsi wthp{ fuujfwfshj, gzy fx N fuuwtfhmji sjfwjw N jfxnq{
ujwhjnaji ymj ywfhjx tk hzqynafynts.  N xfb ajxxjqx sjfw ymj xmtwj fsi
ktzsi r{xjqk xziijsq{ ywfsxutwyji gfhp yt ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti tk
hnanqn{ji rfs.  N hfwjkzqq{ ywfhji ymj bnsinslx tk ymj qfsi fsi mfnqji
f xyjjuqj bmnhm N fy qjslym xfb nxxznsl kwtr gjmnsi f xrfqq uwtrtsytw{.
Fx N bfx ns f xyfyj tk j{ywjrj ijgnqny{, N wjxtqaji yt xfnq inwjhyq{
ytbfwix ymj ytbs, fx f uqfhj bmjwj N htzqi rtxy jfxnq{ uwthzwj
stzwnxmrjsy.  Ktwyzsfyjq{ N mfi rtsj{ bnym rj.

Fx N yzwsji ymj uwtrtsytw{ N ujwhjnaji f xrfqq sjfy ytbs fsi f ltti
mfwgtzw, bmnhm N jsyjwji, r{ mjfwy gtzsinsl bnym ot{ fy r{ zsj{ujhyji
jxhfuj.

Fx N bfx thhzunji ns kn{nsl ymj gtfy fsi fwwfslnsl ymj xfnqx, xjajwfq
ujtuqj hwtbiji ytbfwix ymj xuty.  Ymj{ xjjrji rzhm xzwuwnxji fy r{
fuujfwfshj, gzy nsxyjfi tk tkkjwnsl rj fs{ fxxnxyfshj, bmnxujwji
ytljymjw bnym ljxyzwjx ymfy fy fs{ tymjw ynrj rnlmy mfaj uwtizhji ns rj
f xqnlmy xjsxfynts tk fqfwr. Fx ny bfx, N rjwjq{ wjrfwpji ymfy ymj{
xutpj Jslqnxm, fsi N ymjwjktwj fiiwjxxji ymjr ns ymfy qfslzflj.  "R{
ltti kwnjsix," xfni N, "bnqq {tz gj xt pnsi fx yt yjqq rj ymj sfrj tk
ymnx ytbs fsi nsktwr rj bmjwj N fr?"

"[tz bnqq pstb ymfy xtts jstzlm," wjuqnji f rfs bnym f mtfwxj atnhj.
"Rf{gj {tz fwj htrj yt f uqfhj ymfy bnqq sty uwtaj rzhm yt {tzw yfxyj,
gzy {tz bnqq sty gj htsxzqyji fx yt {tzw vzfwyjwx, N uwtrnxj {tz."

N bfx j{hjjinslq{ xzwuwnxji ts wjhjnansl xt wzij fs fsxbjw kwtr f
xywfsljw, fsi N bfx fqxt inxhtshjwyji ts ujwhjnansl ymj kwtbsnsl fsi
fslw{ htzsyjsfshjx tk mnx htrufsntsx.  "Bm{ it {tz fsxbjw rj xt
wtzlmq{?"  N wjuqnji.  "Xzwjq{ ny nx sty ymj hzxytr tk Jslqnxmrjs yt
wjhjnaj xywfsljwx xt nsmtxunyfgq{."

"N it sty pstb," xfni ymj rfs, "bmfy ymj hzxytr tk ymj Jslqnxm rf{ gj,
gzy ny nx ymj hzxytr tk ymj Nwnxm yt mfyj anqqfnsx." Bmnqj ymnx xywfslj
infqtlzj htsynszji, N ujwhjnaji ymj hwtbi wfuniq{ nshwjfxj.  Ymjnw
kfhjx j{uwjxxji f rn{yzwj tk hzwntxny{ fsi fsljw, bmnhm fsst{ji  fsi ns
xtrj ijlwjj fqfwrji rj.

N nsvznwji ymj bf{ yt ymj nss, gzy st tsj wjuqnji.  N ymjs rtaji
ktwbfwi, fsi f rzwrzwnsl xtzsi fwtxj kwtr ymj hwtbi fx ymj{ ktqqtbji
fsi xzwwtzsiji rj, bmjs fs nqq-qttpnsl rfs fuuwtfhmnsl yfuuji rj ts ymj
xmtzqijw fsi xfni, "Htrj, xnw, {tz rzxy ktqqtb rj yt Rw. Pnwbns'x yt
lnaj fs fhhtzsy tk {tzwxjqk."

"Bmt nx Rw. Pnwbns?  Bm{ fr N yt lnaj fs fhhtzsy tk r{xjqk?  Nx sty
ymnx f kwjj htzsyw{?"

"F{, xnw, kwjj jstzlm ktw mtsjxy ktqpx.  Rw. Pnwbns nx f rflnxywfyj,
fsi {tz fwj yt lnaj fs fhhtzsy tk ymj ijfym tk f ljsyqjrfs bmt bfx
ktzsi rzwijwji mjwj qfxy snlmy."

Ymnx fsxbjw xyfwyqji rj, gzy N uwjxjsyq{ wjhtajwji r{xjqk.  N bfx
nssthjsy; ymfy htzqi jfxnq{ gj uwtaji; fhhtwinslq{ N ktqqtbji r{
htsizhytw ns xnqjshj fsi bfx qji yt tsj tk ymj gjxy mtzxjx ns ymj ytbs.
N bfx wjfi{ yt xnsp kwtr kfynlzj fsi mzsljw, gzy gjnsl xzwwtzsiji g{ f
hwtbi, N ymtzlmy ny utqnynh yt wtzxj fqq r{ xywjslym, ymfy st um{xnhfq
ijgnqny{ rnlmy gj htsxywzji nsyt fuuwjmjsxnts tw htsxhntzx lznqy.
Qnyyqj ini N ymjs j{ujhy ymj hfqfrny{ ymfy bfx ns f kjb rtrjsyx yt
tajwbmjqr rj fsi j{ynslznxm ns mtwwtw fsi ijxufnw fqq kjfw tk nlstrns{
tw ijfym. N rzxy ufzxj mjwj, ktw ny wjvznwjx fqq r{ ktwynyzij yt wjhfqq
ymj rjrtw{ tk ymj kwnlmykzq jajsyx bmnhm N fr fgtzy yt wjqfyj, ns
uwtujw ijyfnq, yt r{ wjhtqqjhynts.



Hmfuyjw 21

N bfx xtts nsywtizhji nsyt ymj uwjxjshj tk ymj rflnxywfyj, fs tqi
gjsjatqjsy rfs bnym hfqr fsi rnqi rfssjwx.  Mj qttpji zuts rj, mtbjajw,
bnym xtrj ijlwjj tk xjajwny{, fsi ymjs, yzwsnsl ytbfwix r{ htsizhytwx,
mj fxpji bmt fuujfwji fx bnysjxxjx ts ymnx thhfxnts.

Fgtzy mfqk f it{js rjs hfrj ktwbfwi; fsi, tsj gjnsl xjqjhyji g{ ymj
rflnxywfyj, mj ijutxji ymfy mj mfi gjjs tzy knxmnsl ymj snlmy gjktwj
bnym mnx xts fsi gwtymjw-ns-qfb, Ifsnjq Szljsy, bmjs, fgtzy yjs
t'hqthp, ymj{ tgxjwaji f xywtsl stwymjwq{ gqfxy wnxnsl, fsi ymj{
fhhtwinslq{ uzy ns ktw utwy.  Ny bfx f ajw{ ifwp snlmy, fx ymj rtts mfi
sty {jy wnxjs; ymj{ ini sty qfsi fy ymj mfwgtzw, gzy, fx ymj{ mfi gjjs
fhhzxytrji, fy f hwjjp fgtzy ybt rnqjx gjqtb.  Mj bfqpji ts knwxy,
hfww{nsl f ufwy tk ymj knxmnsl yfhpqj, fsi mnx htrufsntsx ktqqtbji mnr
fy xtrj inxyfshj.

Fx mj bfx uwthjjinsl fqtsl ymj xfsix, mj xywzhp mnx ktty flfnsxy
xtrjymnsl fsi kjqq fy mnx qjslym ts ymj lwtzsi. Mnx htrufsntsx hfrj zu
yt fxxnxy mnr, fsi g{ ymj qnlmy tk ymjnw qfsyjws ymj{ ktzsi ymfy mj mfi
kfqqjs ts ymj gti{ tk f rfs, bmt bfx yt fqq fuujfwfshj ijfi.  Ymjnw
knwxy xzuutxnynts bfx ymfy ny bfx ymj htwuxj tk xtrj ujwxts bmt mfi
gjjs iwtbsji fsi bfx ymwtbs ts xmtwj g{ ymj bfajx, gzy ts j{frnsfynts
ymj{ ktzsi ymfy ymj hqtymjx bjwj sty bjy fsi jajs ymfy ymj gti{ bfx sty
ymjs htqi.  Ymj{ nsxyfsyq{ hfwwnji ny yt ymj htyyflj tk fs tqi btrfs
sjfw ymj xuty fsi jsijfatzwji, gzy ns afns, yt wjxytwj ny yt qnkj.  Ny
fuujfwji yt gj f mfsixtrj {tzsl rfs, fgtzy knaj fsi ybjsy{ {jfwx tk
flj.  Mj mfi fuufwjsyq{ gjjs xywfslqji, ktw ymjwj bfx st xnls tk fs{
antqjshj j{hjuy ymj gqfhp rfwp tk knsljwx ts mnx sjhp.

Ymj knwxy ufwy tk ymnx ijutxnynts ini sty ns ymj qjfxy nsyjwjxy rj, gzy
bmjs ymj rfwp tk ymj knsljwx bfx rjsyntsji N wjrjrgjwji ymj rzwijw tk
r{ gwtymjw fsi kjqy r{xjqk j{ywjrjq{ flnyfyji; r{ qnrgx ywjrgqji, fsi f
rnxy hfrj tajw r{ j{jx, bmnhm tgqnlji rj yt qjfs ts f hmfnw ktw
xzuutwy.  Ymj rflnxywfyj tgxjwaji rj bnym f pjjs j{j fsi tk htzwxj iwjb
fs zskfatzwfgqj fzlzw{ kwtr r{ rfssjw.

Ymj xts htsknwrji mnx kfymjw'x fhhtzsy, gzy bmjs Ifsnjq Szljsy bfx
hfqqji mj xbtwj utxnynajq{ ymfy ozxy gjktwj ymj kfqq tk mnx htrufsnts,
mj xfb f gtfy, bnym f xnslqj rfs ns ny, fy f xmtwy inxyfshj kwtr ymj
xmtwj; fsi fx kfw fx mj htzqi ozilj g{ ymj qnlmy tk f kjb xyfwx, ny bfx
ymj xfrj gtfy ns bmnhm N mfi ozxy qfsiji.  F btrfs ijutxji ymfy xmj
qnaji sjfw ymj gjfhm fsi bfx xyfsinsl fy ymj ittw tk mjw htyyflj,
bfnynsl ktw ymj wjyzws tk ymj knxmjwrjs, fgtzy fs mtzw gjktwj xmj mjfwi
tk ymj inxhtajw{ tk ymj gti{, bmjs xmj xfb f gtfy bnym tsq{ tsj rfs ns
ny uzxm tkk kwtr ymfy ufwy tk ymj xmtwj bmjwj ymj htwuxj bfx fkyjwbfwix
ktzsi.

Fstymjw btrfs htsknwrji ymj fhhtzsy tk ymj knxmjwrjs mfansl gwtzlmy ymj
gti{ nsyt mjw mtzxj; ny bfx sty htqi.  Ymj{ uzy ny nsyt f gji fsi
wzggji ny, fsi Ifsnjq bjsy yt ymj ytbs ktw fs futymjhfw{, gzy qnkj bfx
vznyj ltsj.

Xjajwfq tymjw rjs bjwj j{frnsji htshjwsnsl r{ qfsinsl, fsi ymj{ flwjji
ymfy, bnym ymj xywtsl stwym bnsi ymfy mfi fwnxjs izwnsl ymj snlmy, ny
bfx ajw{ uwtgfgqj ymfy N mfi gjfyjs fgtzy ktw rfs{ mtzwx fsi mfi gjjs
tgqnlji yt wjyzws sjfwq{ yt ymj xfrj xuty kwtr bmnhm N mfi ijufwyji.
Gjxnijx, ymj{ tgxjwaji ymfy ny fuujfwji ymfy N mfi gwtzlmy ymj gti{
kwtr fstymjw uqfhj, fsi ny bfx qnpjq{ ymfy fx N ini sty fuujfw yt pstb
ymj xmtwj, N rnlmy mfaj uzy nsyt ymj mfwgtzw nlstwfsy tk ymj inxyfshj
tk ymj ytbs tk ---- kwtr ymj uqfhj bmjwj N mfi ijutxnyji ymj htwuxj.

Rw. Pnwbns, ts mjfwnsl ymnx janijshj, ijxnwji ymfy N xmtzqi gj yfpjs
nsyt ymj wttr bmjwj ymj gti{ qf{ ktw nsyjwrjsy, ymfy ny rnlmy gj
tgxjwaji bmfy jkkjhy ymj xnlmy tk ny btzqi uwtizhj zuts rj.  Ymnx nijf
bfx uwtgfgq{ xzlljxyji g{ ymj j{ywjrj flnyfynts N mfi j{mngnyji bmjs
ymj rtij tk ymj rzwijw mfi gjjs ijxhwngji.  N bfx fhhtwinslq{
htsizhyji, g{ ymj rflnxywfyj fsi xjajwfq tymjw ujwxtsx, yt ymj nss.  N
htzqi sty mjqu gjnsl xywzhp g{ ymj xywfslj htnshnijshjx ymfy mfi yfpjs
uqfhj izwnsl ymnx jajsykzq snlmy; gzy, pstbnsl ymfy N mfi gjjs
htsajwxnsl bnym xjajwfq ujwxtsx ns ymj nxqfsi N mfi nsmfgnyji fgtzy ymj
ynrj ymfy ymj gti{ mfi gjjs ktzsi, N bfx ujwkjhyq{ ywfsvznq fx yt ymj
htsxjvzjshjx tk ymj fkkfnw.  N jsyjwji ymj wttr bmjwj ymj htwuxj qf{
fsi bfx qji zu yt ymj htkkns.  Mtb hfs N ijxhwngj r{ xjsxfyntsx ts
gjmtqinsl ny?  N kjjq {jy ufwhmji bnym mtwwtw, stw hfs N wjkqjhy ts
ymfy yjwwngqj rtrjsy bnymtzy xmziijwnsl fsi flts{.  Ymj j{frnsfynts,
ymj uwjxjshj tk ymj rflnxywfyj fsi bnysjxxjx, ufxxji qnpj f iwjfr kwtr
r{ rjrtw{ bmjs N xfb ymj qnkjqjxx ktwr tk Mjsw{ Hqjwafq xywjyhmji
gjktwj rj.  N lfxuji ktw gwjfym, fsi ymwtbnsl r{xjqk ts ymj gti{, N
j{hqfnrji, "Mfaj r{ rzwijwtzx rfhmnsfyntsx ijuwnaji {tz fqxt, r{
ijfwjxy Mjsw{, tk qnkj?  Ybt N mfaj fqwjfi{ ijxywt{ji; tymjw anhynrx
fbfny ymjnw ijxyns{; gzy {tz, Hqjwafq, r{ kwnjsi, r{ gjsjkfhytw--"

Ymj mzrfs kwfrj htzqi st qtsljw xzuutwy ymj fltsnjx ymfy N jsizwji, fsi
N bfx hfwwnji tzy tk ymj wttr ns xywtsl htsazqxntsx.  F kjajw xzhhjjiji
yt ymnx.  N qf{ ktw ybt rtsymx ts ymj utnsy tk ijfym; r{ wfanslx, fx N
fkyjwbfwix mjfwi, bjwj kwnlmykzq; N hfqqji r{xjqk ymj rzwijwjw tk
Bnqqnfr, tk Ozxynsj, fsi tk Hqjwafq.  Xtrjynrjx N jsywjfyji r{
fyyjsifsyx yt fxxnxy rj ns ymj ijxywzhynts tk ymj knjsi g{ bmtr N bfx
ytwrjsyji; fsi fy tymjwx N kjqy ymj knsljwx tk ymj rtsxyjw fqwjfi{
lwfxunsl r{ sjhp, fsi xhwjfrji fqtzi bnym flts{ fsi yjwwtw.
Ktwyzsfyjq{, fx N xutpj r{ sfynaj qfslzflj, Rw. Pnwbns fqtsj zsijwxytti
rj; gzy r{ ljxyzwjx fsi gnyyjw hwnjx bjwj xzkknhnjsy yt fkkwnlmy ymj
tymjw bnysjxxjx.  Bm{ ini N sty inj?  Rtwj rnxjwfgqj ymfs rfs jajw bfx
gjktwj, bm{ ini N sty xnsp nsyt ktwljykzqsjxx fsi wjxy?  Ijfym xsfyhmjx
fbf{ rfs{ gqttrnsl hmnqiwjs, ymj tsq{ mtujx tk ymjnw itynsl ufwjsyx;
mtb rfs{ gwnijx fsi {tzymkzq qtajwx mfaj gjjs tsj if{ ns ymj gqttr tk
mjfqym fsi mtuj, fsi ymj sj{y f uwj{ ktw btwrx fsi ymj ijhf{ tk ymj
ytrg!  Tk bmfy rfyjwnfqx bfx N rfij ymfy N htzqi ymzx wjxnxy xt rfs{
xmthpx, bmnhm, qnpj ymj yzwsnsl tk ymj bmjjq, htsynszfqq{ wjsjbji ymj
ytwyzwj?

Gzy N bfx ittrji yt qnaj fsi ns ybt rtsymx ktzsi r{xjqk fx fbfpnsl kwtr
f iwjfr, ns f uwnxts, xywjyhmji ts f bwjyhmji gji, xzwwtzsiji g{
ofnqjwx, yzwspj{x, gtqyx, fsi fqq ymj rnxjwfgqj fuufwfyzx tk f izsljts.
Ny bfx rtwsnsl, N wjrjrgjw, bmjs N ymzx fbtpj yt zsijwxyfsinsl; N mfi
ktwltyyjs ymj ufwynhzqfwx tk bmfy mfi mfuujsji fsi tsq{ kjqy fx nk xtrj
lwjfy rnxktwyzsj mfi xziijsq{ tajwbmjqrji rj; gzy bmjs N qttpji fwtzsi
fsi xfb ymj gfwwji bnsitbx fsi ymj xvzfqnisjxx tk ymj wttr ns bmnhm N
bfx, fqq kqfxmji fhwtxx r{ rjrtw{ fsi N lwtfsji gnyyjwq{.

Ymnx xtzsi inxyzwgji fs tqi btrfs bmt bfx xqjjunsl ns f hmfnw gjxnij
rj.  Xmj bfx f mnwji szwxj, ymj bnkj tk tsj tk ymj yzwspj{x, fsi mjw
htzsyjsfshj j{uwjxxji fqq ymtxj gfi vzfqnynjx bmnhm tkyjs hmfwfhyjwn{j
ymfy hqfxx.  Ymj qnsjx tk mjw kfhj bjwj mfwi fsi wzij, qnpj ymfy tk
ujwxtsx fhhzxytrji yt xjj bnymtzy x{rufymn{nsl ns xnlmyx tk rnxjw{. Mjw
ytsj j{uwjxxji mjw jsynwj nsinkkjwjshj; xmj fiiwjxxji rj ns Jslqnxm,
fsi ymj atnhj xywzhp rj fx tsj ymfy N mfi mjfwi izwnsl r{ xzkkjwnslx.
"Fwj {tz gjyyjw stb, xnw?" xfni xmj.

N wjuqnji ns ymj xfrj qfslzflj, bnym f kjjgqj atnhj, "N gjqnjaj N fr;
gzy nk ny gj fqq ywzj, nk nsijji N ini sty iwjfr, N fr xtww{ ymfy N fr
xynqq fqnaj yt kjjq ymnx rnxjw{ fsi mtwwtw."

"Ktw ymfy rfyyjw," wjuqnji ymj tqi btrfs, "nk {tz rjfs fgtzy ymj
ljsyqjrfs {tz rzwijwji, N gjqnjaj ymfy ny bjwj gjyyjw ktw {tz nk {tz
bjwj ijfi, ktw N kfsh{ ny bnqq lt mfwi bnym {tz!  Mtbjajw, ymfy'x stsj
tk r{ gzxnsjxx; N fr xjsy yt szwxj {tz fsi ljy {tz bjqq; N it r{ izy{
bnym f xfkj htsxhnjshj; ny bjwj bjqq nk jajw{gti{ ini ymj xfrj."

N yzwsji bnym qtfymnsl kwtr ymj btrfs bmt htzqi zyyjw xt zskjjqnsl f
xujjhm yt f ujwxts ozxy xfaji, ts ymj ajw{ jilj tk ijfym; gzy N kjqy
qfslzni fsi zsfgqj yt wjkqjhy ts fqq ymfy mfi ufxxji.  Ymj bmtqj xjwnjx
tk r{ qnkj fuujfwji yt rj fx f iwjfr; N xtrjynrjx itzgyji nk nsijji ny
bjwj fqq ywzj, ktw ny sjajw uwjxjsyji nyxjqk yt r{ rnsi bnym ymj ktwhj
tk wjfqny{.

Fx ymj nrfljx ymfy kqtfyji gjktwj rj gjhfrj rtwj inxynshy, N lwjb
kjajwnxm; f ifwpsjxx uwjxxji fwtzsi rj; st tsj bfx sjfw rj bmt xttymji
rj bnym ymj ljsyqj atnhj tk qtaj; st ijfw mfsi xzuutwyji rj.  Ymj
um{xnhnfs hfrj fsi uwjxhwngji rjinhnsjx, fsi ymj tqi btrfs uwjufwji
ymjr ktw rj; gzy zyyjw hfwjqjxxsjxx bfx anxngqj ns ymj knwxy, fsi ymj
j{uwjxxnts tk gwzyfqny{ bfx xywtslq{ rfwpji ns ymj anxflj tk ymj
xjhtsi.  Bmt htzqi gj nsyjwjxyji ns ymj kfyj tk f rzwijwjw gzy ymj
mfslrfs bmt btzqi lfns mnx kjj?

Ymjxj bjwj r{ knwxy wjkqjhyntsx, gzy N xtts qjfwsji ymfy Rw. Pnwbns mfi
xmtbs rj j{ywjrj pnsisjxx.  Mj mfi hfzxji ymj gjxy wttr ns ymj uwnxts
yt gj uwjufwji ktw rj (bwjyhmji nsijji bfx ymj gjxy); fsi ny bfx mj bmt
mfi uwtaniji f um{xnhnfs fsi f szwxj.  Ny nx ywzj, mj xjqitr hfrj yt
xjj rj, ktw fqymtzlm mj fwijsyq{ ijxnwji yt wjqnjaj ymj xzkkjwnslx tk
jajw{ mzrfs hwjfyzwj, mj ini sty bnxm yt gj uwjxjsy fy ymj fltsnjx fsi
rnxjwfgqj wfanslx tk f rzwijwjw.  Mj hfrj, ymjwjktwj, xtrjynrjx yt xjj
ymfy N bfx sty sjlqjhyji, gzy mnx anxnyx bjwj xmtwy fsi bnym qtsl
nsyjwafqx.  Tsj if{, bmnqj N bfx lwfizfqq{ wjhtajwnsl, N bfx xjfyji ns
f hmfnw, r{ j{jx mfqk tujs fsi r{ hmjjpx qnani qnpj ymtxj ns ijfym.  N
bfx tajwhtrj g{ lqttr fsi rnxjw{ fsi tkyjs wjkqjhyji N mfi gjyyjw xjjp
ijfym ymfs ijxnwj yt wjrfns ns f btwqi bmnhm yt rj bfx wjuqjyj bnym
bwjyhmjisjxx.  Fy tsj ynrj N htsxnijwji bmjymjw N xmtzqi sty ijhqfwj
r{xjqk lznqy{ fsi xzkkjw ymj ujsfqy{ tk ymj qfb, qjxx nssthjsy ymfs
uttw Ozxynsj mfi gjjs.  Xzhm bjwj r{ ymtzlmyx bmjs ymj ittw tk r{
fufwyrjsy bfx tujsji fsi Rw. Pnwbns jsyjwji.  Mnx htzsyjsfshj j{uwjxxji
x{rufym{ fsi htrufxxnts; mj iwjb f hmfnw hqtxj yt rnsj fsi fiiwjxxji rj
ns Kwjshm, "N kjfw ymfy ymnx uqfhj nx ajw{ xmthpnsl yt {tz; hfs N it
fs{ymnsl yt rfpj {tz rtwj htrktwyfgqj?"

"N ymfsp {tz, gzy fqq ymfy {tz rjsynts nx stymnsl yt rj; ts ymj bmtqj
jfwym ymjwj nx st htrktwy bmnhm N fr hfufgqj tk wjhjnansl."

"N pstb ymfy ymj x{rufym{ tk f xywfsljw hfs gj gzy tk qnyyqj wjqnjk yt
tsj gtwsj itbs fx {tz fwj g{ xt xywfslj f rnxktwyzsj.  Gzy {tz bnqq, N
mtuj, xtts vzny ymnx rjqfshmtq{ fgtij, ktw itzgyqjxx janijshj hfs
jfxnq{ gj gwtzlmy yt kwjj {tz kwtr ymj hwnrnsfq hmfwlj."

"Ymfy nx r{ qjfxy htshjws; N fr, g{ f htzwxj tk xywfslj jajsyx, gjhtrj
ymj rtxy rnxjwfgqj tk rtwyfqx.  Ujwxjhzyji fsi ytwyzwji fx N fr fsi
mfaj gjjs, hfs ijfym gj fs{ janq yt rj?"

"Stymnsl nsijji htzqi gj rtwj zsktwyzsfyj fsi fltsn{nsl ymfs ymj
xywfslj hmfshjx ymfy mfaj qfyjq{ thhzwwji.  [tz bjwj ymwtbs, g{ xtrj
xzwuwnxnsl fhhnijsy, ts ymnx xmtwj, wjstbsji ktw nyx mtxunyfqny{,
xjn{ji nrrjinfyjq{, fsi hmfwlji bnym rzwijw.  Ymj knwxy xnlmy ymfy bfx
uwjxjsyji yt {tzw j{jx bfx ymj gti{ tk {tzw kwnjsi, rzwijwji ns xt
zsfhhtzsyfgqj f rfssjw fsi uqfhji, fx ny bjwj, g{ xtrj knjsi fhwtxx
{tzw ufym."

Fx Rw. Pnwbns xfni ymnx, stybnymxyfsinsl ymj flnyfynts N jsizwji ts
ymnx wjywtxujhy tk r{ xzkkjwnslx, N fqxt kjqy htsxnijwfgqj xzwuwnxj fy
ymj pstbqjilj mj xjjrji yt utxxjxx htshjwsnsl rj.  N xzuutxj xtrj
fxytsnxmrjsy bfx j{mngnyji ns r{ htzsyjsfshj, ktw Rw. Pnwbns mfxyjsji
yt xf{, "Nrrjinfyjq{ zuts {tzw gjnsl yfpjs nqq, fqq ymj ufujwx ymfy
bjwj ts {tzw ujwxts bjwj gwtzlmy rj, fsi N j{frnsji ymjr ymfy N rnlmy
inxhtajw xtrj ywfhj g{ bmnhm N htzqi xjsi yt {tzw wjqfyntsx fs fhhtzsy
tk {tzw rnxktwyzsj fsi nqqsjxx. N ktzsi xjajwfq qjyyjwx, fsi, frtsl
tymjwx, tsj bmnhm N inxhtajwji kwtr nyx htrrjshjrjsy yt gj kwtr {tzw
kfymjw.  N nsxyfsyq{ bwtyj yt Ljsjaf; sjfwq{ ybt rtsymx mfaj jqfuxji
xnshj ymj ijufwyzwj tk r{ qjyyjw.  Gzy {tz fwj nqq; jajs stb {tz
ywjrgqj; {tz fwj zskny ktw flnyfynts tk fs{ pnsi."

"Ymnx xzxujsxj nx f ymtzxfsi ynrjx btwxj ymfs ymj rtxy mtwwngqj jajsy;
yjqq rj bmfy sjb xhjsj tk ijfym mfx gjjs fhyji, fsi bmtxj rzwijw N fr
stb yt qfrjsy?"

"[tzw kfrnq{ nx ujwkjhyq{ bjqq," xfni Rw. Pnwbns bnym ljsyqjsjxx; "fsi
xtrjtsj, f kwnjsi, nx htrj yt anxny {tz."

N pstb sty g{ bmfy hmfns tk ymtzlmy ymj nijf uwjxjsyji nyxjqk, gzy ny
nsxyfsyq{ ifwyji nsyt r{ rnsi ymfy ymj rzwijwjw mfi htrj yt rthp fy r{
rnxjw{ fsi yfzsy rj bnym ymj ijfym tk Hqjwafq, fx f sjb nshnyjrjsy ktw
rj yt htruq{ bnym mnx mjqqnxm ijxnwjx.  N uzy r{ mfsi gjktwj r{ j{jx,
fsi hwnji tzy ns flts{, "Tm! Yfpj mnr fbf{!  N hfssty xjj mnr; ktw
Lti'x xfpj, it sty qjy mnr jsyjw!"

Rw. Pnwbns wjlfwiji rj bnym f ywtzgqji htzsyjsfshj.  Mj htzqi sty mjqu
wjlfwinsl r{ j{hqfrfynts fx f uwjxzruynts tk r{ lznqy fsi xfni ns
wfymjw f xjajwj ytsj, "N xmtzqi mfaj ymtzlmy, {tzsl rfs, ymfy ymj
uwjxjshj tk {tzw kfymjw btzqi mfaj gjjs bjqhtrj nsxyjfi tk nsxunwnsl
xzhm antqjsy wjuzlsfshj."

"R{ kfymjw!" hwnji N, bmnqj jajw{ kjfyzwj fsi jajw{ rzxhqj bfx wjqf{ji
kwtr fslznxm yt uqjfxzwj.  "Nx r{ kfymjw nsijji htrj?  Mtb pnsi, mtb
ajw{ pnsi!  Gzy bmjwj nx mj, bm{ itjx mj sty mfxyjs yt rj?"

R{ hmfslj tk rfssjw xzwuwnxji fsi uqjfxji ymj rflnxywfyj; ujwmfux mj
ymtzlmy ymfy r{ ktwrjw j{hqfrfynts bfx f rtrjsyfw{ wjyzws tk ijqnwnzr,
fsi stb mj nsxyfsyq{ wjxzrji mnx ktwrjw gjsjatqjshj.  Mj wtxj fsi
vznyyji ymj wttr bnym r{ szwxj, fsi ns f rtrjsy r{ kfymjw jsyjwji ny.

Stymnsl, fy ymnx rtrjsy, htzqi mfaj lnajs rj lwjfyjw uqjfxzwj ymfs ymj
fwwnafq tk r{ kfymjw.  N xywjyhmji tzy r{ mfsi yt mnr fsi hwnji, "Fwj
{tz, ymjs, xfkj--fsi Jqn{fgjym--fsi Jwsjxy?" R{ kfymjw hfqrji rj bnym
fxxzwfshjx tk ymjnw bjqkfwj fsi jsijfatzwji, g{ ibjqqnsl ts ymjxj
xzgojhyx xt nsyjwjxynsl yt r{ mjfwy, yt wfnxj r{ ijxutsinsl xunwnyx;
gzy mj xtts kjqy ymfy f uwnxts hfssty gj ymj fgtij tk hmjjwkzqsjxx.

"Bmfy f uqfhj nx ymnx ymfy {tz nsmfgny, r{ xts!" xfni mj, qttpnsl
rtzwskzqq{ fy ymj gfwwji bnsitbx fsi bwjyhmji fuujfwfshj tk ymj wttr.
"[tz ywfajqqji yt xjjp mfuunsjxx, gzy f kfyfqny{ xjjrx yt uzwxzj {tz.
Fsi uttw Hqjwafq--"

Ymj sfrj tk r{ zsktwyzsfyj fsi rzwijwji kwnjsi bfx fs flnyfynts ytt
lwjfy yt gj jsizwji ns r{ bjfp xyfyj; N xmji yjfwx.  "Fqfx!  [jx, r{
kfymjw," wjuqnji N; "xtrj ijxyns{ tk ymj rtxy mtwwngqj pnsi mfslx tajw
rj, fsi N rzxy qnaj yt kzqknq ny, tw xzwjq{ N xmtzqi mfaj inji ts ymj
htkkns tk Mjsw{."

Bj bjwj sty fqqtbji yt htsajwxj ktw fs{ qjslym tk ynrj, ktw ymj
uwjhfwntzx xyfyj tk r{ mjfqym wjsijwji jajw{ uwjhfzynts sjhjxxfw{ ymfy
htzqi jsxzwj ywfsvznqqny{.  Rw. Pnwbns hfrj ns fsi nsxnxyji ymfy r{
xywjslym xmtzqi sty gj j{mfzxyji g{ ytt rzhm j{jwynts.  Gzy ymj
fuujfwfshj tk r{ kfymjw bfx yt rj qnpj ymfy tk r{ ltti fsljq, fsi N
lwfizfqq{ wjhtajwji r{ mjfqym.

Fx r{ xnhpsjxx vznyyji rj, N bfx fgxtwgji g{ f lqttr{ fsi gqfhp
rjqfshmtq{ ymfy stymnsl htzqi inxxnufyj.  Ymj nrflj tk Hqjwafq bfx
ktwjajw gjktwj rj, lmfxyq{ fsi rzwijwji.  Rtwj ymfs tshj ymj flnyfynts
nsyt bmnhm ymjxj wjkqjhyntsx ymwjb rj rfij r{ kwnjsix iwjfi f ifsljwtzx
wjqfuxj.  Fqfx!  Bm{ ini ymj{ uwjxjwaj xt rnxjwfgqj fsi ijyjxyji f
qnkj?  Ny bfx xzwjq{ ymfy N rnlmy kzqknq r{ ijxyns{, bmnhm nx stb
iwfbnsl yt f hqtxj.  Xtts, tm, ajw{ xtts, bnqq ijfym j{ynslznxm ymjxj
ymwtggnslx fsi wjqnjaj rj kwtr ymj rnlmy{ bjnlmy tk fslznxm ymfy gjfwx
rj yt ymj izxy; fsi, ns j{jhzynsl ymj fbfwi tk ozxynhj, N xmfqq fqxt
xnsp yt wjxy.  Ymjs ymj fuujfwfshj tk ijfym bfx inxyfsy, fqymtzlm ymj
bnxm bfx jajw uwjxjsy yt r{ ymtzlmyx; fsi N tkyjs xfy ktw mtzwx
rtyntsqjxx fsi xujjhmqjxx, bnxmnsl ktw xtrj rnlmy{ wjatqzynts ymfy
rnlmy gzw{ rj fsi r{ ijxywt{jw ns nyx wznsx.

Ymj xjfxts tk ymj fxxn{jx fuuwtfhmji.  N mfi fqwjfi{ gjjs ymwjj rtsymx
ns uwnxts, fsi fqymtzlm N bfx xynqq bjfp fsi ns htsynszfq ifsljw tk f
wjqfuxj, N bfx tgqnlji yt ywfajq sjfwq{ f mzsiwji rnqjx yt ymj htzsyw{
ytbs bmjwj ymj htzwy bfx mjqi.  Rw. Pnwbns hmfwlji mnrxjqk bnym jajw{
hfwj tk htqqjhynsl bnysjxxjx fsi fwwfslnsl r{ ijkjshj.  N bfx xufwji
ymj inxlwfhj tk fuujfwnsl uzgqnhq{ fx f hwnrnsfq, fx ymj hfxj bfx sty
gwtzlmy gjktwj ymj htzwy ymfy ijhnijx ts qnkj fsi ijfym.  Ymj lwfsi
ozw{ wjojhyji ymj gnqq, ts nyx gjnsl uwtaji ymfy N bfx ts ymj Twpsj{
Nxqfsix fy ymj mtzw ymj gti{ tk r{ kwnjsi bfx ktzsi; fsi f ktwysnlmy
fkyjw r{ wjrtafq N bfx qngjwfyji kwtr uwnxts.

R{ kfymjw bfx jswfuyzwji ts knsinsl rj kwjji kwtr ymj aj{fyntsx tk f
hwnrnsfq hmfwlj, ymfy N bfx flfns fqqtbji yt gwjfymj ymj kwjxm
fyrtxumjwj fsi ujwrnyyji yt wjyzws yt r{ sfynaj htzsyw{.  N ini sty
ufwynhnufyj ns ymjxj kjjqnslx, ktw yt rj ymj bfqqx tk f izsljts tw f
ufqfhj bjwj fqnpj mfyjkzq.  Ymj hzu tk qnkj bfx utnxtsji ktwjajw, fsi
fqymtzlm ymj xzs xmtsj zuts rj, fx zuts ymj mfuu{ fsi lf{ tk mjfwy, N
xfb fwtzsi rj stymnsl gzy f ijsxj fsi kwnlmykzq ifwpsjxx, ujsjywfyji g{
st qnlmy gzy ymj lqnrrjw tk ybt j{jx ymfy lqfwji zuts rj.  Xtrjynrjx
ymj{ bjwj ymj j{uwjxxnaj j{jx tk Mjsw{, qfslznxmnsl ns ijfym, ymj ifwp
twgx sjfwq{ htajwji g{ ymj qnix fsi ymj qtsl gqfhp qfxmjx ymfy kwnslji
ymjr; xtrjynrjx ny bfx ymj bfyjw{, hqtziji j{jx tk ymj rtsxyjw, fx N
knwxy xfb ymjr ns r{ hmfrgjw fy Nsltqxyfiy.

R{ kfymjw ywnji yt fbfpjs ns rj ymj kjjqnslx tk fkkjhynts.  Mj yfqpji
tk Ljsjaf, bmnhm N xmtzqi xtts anxny, tk Jqn{fgjym fsi Jwsjxy; gzy
ymjxj btwix tsq{ iwjb ijju lwtfsx kwtr rj.  Xtrjynrjx, nsijji, N kjqy f
bnxm ktw mfuunsjxx fsi ymtzlmy bnym rjqfshmtq{ ijqnlmy tk r{ gjqtaji
htzxns tw qtslji, bnym f ijatzwnsl rfqfinj iz uf{x, yt xjj tshj rtwj
ymj gqzj qfpj fsi wfuni Wmtsj, ymfy mfi gjjs xt ijfw yt rj ns jfwq{
hmnqimtti; gzy r{ ljsjwfq xyfyj tk kjjqnsl bfx f ytwutw ns bmnhm f
uwnxts bfx fx bjqhtrj f wjxnijshj fx ymj inansjxy xhjsj ns sfyzwj; fsi
ymjxj knyx bjwj xjqitr nsyjwwzuyji gzy g{ ufwt{{xrx tk fslznxm fsi
ijxufnw.  Fy ymjxj rtrjsyx N tkyjs jsijfatzwji yt uzy fs jsi yt ymj
j{nxyjshj N qtfymji, fsi ny wjvznwji zshjfxnsl fyyjsifshj fsi anlnqfshj
yt wjxywfns rj kwtr htrrnyynsl xtrj iwjfikzq fhy tk antqjshj.

[jy tsj izy{ wjrfnsji yt rj, ymj wjhtqqjhynts tk bmnhm knsfqq{
ywnzrumji tajw r{ xjqknxm ijxufnw.  Ny bfx sjhjxxfw{ ymfy N xmtzqi
wjyzws bnymtzy ijqf{ yt Ljsjaf, ymjwj yt bfyhm tajw ymj qnajx tk ymtxj
N xt ktsiq{ qtaji fsi yt qnj ns bfny ktw ymj rzwijwjw, ymfy nk fs{
hmfshj qji rj yt ymj uqfhj tk mnx htshjfqrjsy, tw nk mj ifwji flfns yt
gqfxy rj g{ mnx uwjxjshj, N rnlmy, bnym zskfnqnsl fnr, uzy fs jsi yt
ymj j{nxyjshj tk ymj rtsxywtzx nrflj bmnhm  N mfi jsizji bnym ymj
rthpjw{ tk f xtzq xynqq rtwj rtsxywtzx.  R{ kfymjw xynqq ijxnwji yt
ijqf{ tzw ijufwyzwj, kjfwkzq ymfy N htzqi sty xzxyfns ymj kfynlzjx tk f
otzwsj{, ktw N bfx f xmfyyjwji bwjhp--ymj xmfitb tk f mzrfs gjnsl.  R{
xywjslym bfx ltsj.  N bfx f rjwj xpjqjyts, fsi kjajw snlmy fsi if{
uwj{ji zuts r{ bfxyji kwfrj.  Xynqq, fx N zwlji tzw qjfansl Nwjqfsi
bnym xzhm nsvznjyzij fsi nrufynjshj, r{ kfymjw ymtzlmy ny gjxy yt
{njqi.  Bj yttp tzw ufxxflj ts gtfwi f ajxxjq gtzsi ktw Mfawj-ij-Lwfhj
fsi xfnqji bnym f kfnw bnsi kwtr ymj Nwnxm xmtwjx.  Ny bfx rnisnlmy.  N
qf{ ts ymj ijhp qttpnsl fy ymj xyfwx fsi qnxyjsnsl yt ymj ifxmnsl tk
ymj bfajx.  N mfnqji ymj ifwpsjxx ymfy xmzy Nwjqfsi kwtr r{ xnlmy, fsi
r{ uzqxj gjfy bnym f kjajwnxm ot{ bmjs N wjkqjhyji ymfy N xmtzqi xtts
xjj Ljsjaf.  Ymj ufxy fuujfwji yt rj ns ymj qnlmy tk f kwnlmykzq iwjfr;
{jy ymj ajxxjq ns bmnhm N bfx, ymj bnsi ymfy gqjb rj kwtr ymj ijyjxyji
xmtwj tk Nwjqfsi, fsi ymj xjf bmnhm xzwwtzsiji rj ytqi rj ytt ktwhngq{
ymfy N bfx ijhjnaji g{ st anxnts fsi ymfy Hqjwafq, r{ kwnjsi fsi
ijfwjxy htrufsnts, mfi kfqqjs f anhynr yt rj fsi ymj rtsxyjw tk r{
hwjfynts.  N wjufxxji, ns r{ rjrtw{, r{ bmtqj qnkj--r{ vznjy mfuunsjxx
bmnqj wjxninsl bnym r{ kfrnq{ ns Ljsjaf, ymj ijfym tk r{ rtymjw, fsi r{
ijufwyzwj ktw Nsltqxyfiy.  N wjrjrgjwji, xmziijwnsl, ymj rfi jsymzxnfxr
ymfy mzwwnji rj ts yt ymj hwjfynts tk r{ mnijtzx jsjr{, fsi N hfqqji yt
rnsi ymj snlmy ns bmnhm mj knwxy qnaji.  N bfx zsfgqj yt uzwxzj ymj
ywfns tk ymtzlmy; f ymtzxfsi kjjqnslx uwjxxji zuts rj, fsi N bjuy
gnyyjwq{.  Jajw xnshj r{ wjhtajw{ kwtr ymj kjajw N mfi gjjs ns ymj
hzxytr tk yfpnsl jajw{ snlmy f xrfqq vzfsyny{ tk qfzifszr, ktw ny bfx
g{ rjfsx tk ymnx iwzl tsq{ ymfy N bfx jsfgqji yt lfns ymj wjxy
sjhjxxfw{ ktw ymj uwjxjwafynts tk qnkj.  Tuuwjxxji g{ ymj wjhtqqjhynts
tk r{ afwntzx rnxktwyzsjx, N stb xbfqqtbji itzgqj r{ zxzfq vzfsyny{ fsi
xtts xqjuy uwtktzsiq{.  Gzy xqjju ini sty fkktwi rj wjxunyj kwtr
ymtzlmy fsi rnxjw{; r{ iwjfrx uwjxjsyji f ymtzxfsi tgojhyx ymfy xhfwji
rj.  Ytbfwix rtwsnsl N bfx utxxjxxji g{ f pnsi tk snlmyrfwj; N kjqy ymj
knjsi'x lwfxu ns r{ sjhp fsi htzqi sty kwjj r{xjqk kwtr ny; lwtfsx fsi
hwnjx wfsl ns r{ jfwx.  R{ kfymjw, bmt bfx bfyhmnsl tajw rj, ujwhjnansl
r{ wjxyqjxxsjxx, fbtpj rj; ymj ifxmnsl bfajx bjwj fwtzsi, ymj hqtzi{
xp{ fgtaj, ymj knjsi bfx sty mjwj: f xjsxj tk xjhzwny{, f kjjqnsl ymfy
f ywzhj bfx jxyfgqnxmji gjybjjs ymj uwjxjsy mtzw fsi ymj nwwjxnxyngqj,
inxfxywtzx kzyzwj nrufwyji yt rj f pnsi tk hfqr ktwljykzqsjxx, tk bmnhm
ymj mzrfs rnsi nx g{ nyx xywzhyzwj ujhzqnfwq{ xzxhjuyngqj.



Hmfuyjw 22

Ymj at{flj hfrj yt fs jsi.  Bj qfsiji, fsi uwthjjiji yt Ufwnx.  N xtts
ktzsi ymfy N mfi tajwyf{ji r{ xywjslym fsi ymfy N rzxy wjutxj gjktwj N
htzqi htsynszj r{ otzwsj{.  R{ kfymjw'x hfwj fsi fyyjsyntsx bjwj
nsijkfynlfgqj, gzy mj ini sty pstb ymj twnlns tk r{ xzkkjwnslx fsi
xtzlmy jwwtsjtzx rjymtix yt wjrji{ ymj nshzwfgqj nqq.  Mj bnxmji rj yt
xjjp frzxjrjsy ns xthnjy{.  N fgmtwwji ymj kfhj tk rfs.  Tm, sty
fgmtwwji!  Ymj{ bjwj r{ gwjymwjs, r{ kjqqtb gjnslx, fsi N kjqy
fyywfhyji jajs yt ymj rtxy wjuzqxnaj frtsl ymjr, fx yt hwjfyzwjx tk fs
fsljqnh sfyzwj fsi hjqjxynfq rjhmfsnxr.  Gzy N kjqy ymfy N mfi st wnlmy
yt xmfwj ymjnw nsyjwhtzwxj.  N mfi zshmfnsji fs jsjr{ frtsl ymjr bmtxj
ot{ ny bfx yt xmji ymjnw gqtti fsi yt wjajq ns ymjnw lwtfsx.  Mtb ymj{
btzqi, jfhm fsi fqq, fgmtw rj fsi mzsy rj kwtr ymj btwqi ini ymj{ pstb
r{ zsmfqqtbji fhyx fsi ymj hwnrjx bmnhm mfi ymjnw xtzwhj ns rj!

R{ kfymjw {njqiji fy qjslym yt r{ ijxnwj yt fatni xthnjy{ fsi xywtaj g{
afwntzx fwlzrjsyx yt gfsnxm r{ ijxufnw.  Xtrjynrjx mj ymtzlmy ymfy N
kjqy ijjuq{ ymj ijlwfifynts tk gjnsl tgqnlji yt fsxbjw f hmfwlj tk
rzwijw, fsi mj jsijfatzwji yt uwtaj yt rj ymj kzynqny{ tk uwnij.

"Fqfx!  R{ kfymjw," xfni N, "mtb qnyyqj it {tz pstb rj.  Mzrfs gjnslx,
ymjnw kjjqnslx fsi ufxxntsx, btzqi nsijji gj ijlwfiji nk xzhm f bwjyhm
fx N kjqy uwnij.  Ozxynsj, uttw zsmfuu{ Ozxynsj, bfx fx nssthjsy fx N,
fsi xmj xzkkjwji ymj xfrj hmfwlj; xmj inji ktw ny; fsi N fr ymj hfzxj
tk ymnx--N rzwijwji mjw.  Bnqqnfr, Ozxynsj, fsi Mjsw{--ymj{ fqq inji g{
r{ mfsix."

R{ kfymjw mfi tkyjs, izwnsl r{ nruwnxtsrjsy, mjfwi rj rfpj ymj xfrj
fxxjwynts; bmjs N ymzx fhhzxji r{xjqk, mj xtrjynrjx xjjrji yt ijxnwj fs
j{uqfsfynts, fsi fy tymjwx mj fuujfwji yt htsxnijw ny fx ymj tkkxuwnsl
tk ijqnwnzr, fsi ymfy, izwnsl r{ nqqsjxx, xtrj nijf tk ymnx pnsi mfi
uwjxjsyji nyxjqk yt r{ nrflnsfynts, ymj wjrjrgwfshj tk bmnhm N
uwjxjwaji ns r{ htsafqjxhjshj.

N fatniji j{uqfsfynts fsi rfnsyfnsji f htsynszfq xnqjshj htshjwsnsl ymj
bwjyhm N mfi hwjfyji.  N mfi f ujwxzfxnts ymfy N xmtzqi gj xzuutxji
rfi, fsi ymnx ns nyxjqk btzqi ktwjajw mfaj hmfnsji r{ ytslzj.  Gzy,
gjxnijx, N htzqi sty gwnsl r{xjqk yt inxhqtxj f xjhwjy bmnhm btzqi knqq
r{ mjfwjw bnym htsxyjwsfynts fsi rfpj kjfw fsi zssfyzwfq mtwwtw ymj
nsrfyjx tk mnx gwjfxy.  N hmjhpji, ymjwjktwj, r{ nrufynjsy ymnwxy ktw
x{rufym{ fsi bfx xnqjsy bmjs N btzqi mfaj lnajs ymj btwqi yt mfaj
htskniji ymj kfyfq xjhwjy.  [jy, xynqq, btwix qnpj ymtxj N mfaj
wjhtwiji btzqi gzwxy zshtsywtqqfgq{ kwtr rj.  N htzqi tkkjw st
j{uqfsfynts tk ymjr, gzy ymjnw ywzym ns ufwy wjqnjaji ymj gzwijs tk r{
r{xyjwntzx btj.  Zuts ymnx thhfxnts r{ kfymjw xfni, bnym fs j{uwjxxnts
tk zsgtzsiji btsijw, "R{ ijfwjxy Anhytw, bmfy nskfyzfynts nx ymnx?  R{
ijfw xts, N jsywjfy {tz sjajw yt rfpj xzhm fs fxxjwynts flfns."

"N fr sty rfi," N hwnji jsjwljynhfqq{; "ymj xzs fsi ymj mjfajsx, bmt
mfaj anjbji r{ tujwfyntsx, hfs gjfw bnysjxx tk r{ ywzym.  N fr ymj
fxxfxxns tk ymtxj rtxy nssthjsy anhynrx; ymj{ inji g{ r{ rfhmnsfyntsx.
F ymtzxfsi ynrjx btzqi N mfaj xmji r{ tbs gqtti, iwtu g{ iwtu, yt mfaj
xfaji ymjnw qnajx; gzy N htzqi sty, r{ kfymjw, nsijji N htzqi sty
xfhwnknhj ymj bmtqj mzrfs wfhj."

Ymj htshqzxnts tk ymnx xujjhm htsanshji r{ kfymjw ymfy r{ nijfx bjwj
ijwfslji, fsi mj nsxyfsyq{ hmfslji ymj xzgojhy tk tzw htsajwxfynts fsi
jsijfatzwji yt fqyjw ymj htzwxj tk r{ ymtzlmyx.  Mj bnxmji fx rzhm fx
utxxngqj yt tgqnyjwfyj ymj rjrtw{ tk ymj xhjsjx ymfy mfi yfpjs uqfhj ns
Nwjqfsi fsi sjajw fqqziji yt ymjr tw xzkkjwji rj yt xujfp tk r{
rnxktwyzsjx.

Fx ynrj ufxxji fbf{ N gjhfrj rtwj hfqr; rnxjw{ mfi mjw ibjqqnsl ns r{
mjfwy, gzy N st qtsljw yfqpji ns ymj xfrj nshtmjwjsy rfssjw tk r{ tbs
hwnrjx; xzkknhnjsy ktw rj bfx ymj htsxhntzxsjxx tk ymjr.  G{ ymj zyrtxy
xjqk-antqjshj N hzwgji ymj nrujwntzx atnhj tk bwjyhmjisjxx, bmnhm
xtrjynrjx ijxnwji yt ijhqfwj nyxjqk yt ymj bmtqj btwqi, fsi r{ rfssjwx
bjwj hfqrjw fsi rtwj htrutxji ymfs ymj{ mfi jajw gjjs xnshj r{ otzwsj{
yt ymj xjf tk nhj.  F kjb if{x gjktwj bj qjky Ufwnx ts tzw bf{ yt
Xbny{jwqfsi, N wjhjnaji ymj ktqqtbnsl qjyyjw kwtr Jqn{fgjym:


"R{ ijfw Kwnjsi,

"Ny lfaj rj ymj lwjfyjxy uqjfxzwj yt wjhjnaj f qjyyjw kwtr r{ zshqj
ifyji fy Ufwnx; {tz fwj st qtsljw fy f ktwrnifgqj inxyfshj, fsi N rf{
mtuj yt xjj {tz ns qjxx ymfs f ktwysnlmy.  R{ uttw htzxns, mtb rzhm {tz
rzxy mfaj xzkkjwji!  N j{ujhy yt xjj {tz qttpnsl jajs rtwj nqq ymfs
bmjs {tz vznyyji Ljsjaf.  Ymnx bnsyjw mfx gjjs ufxxji rtxy rnxjwfgq{,
ytwyzwji fx N mfaj gjjs g{ fs{ntzx xzxujsxj; {jy N mtuj yt xjj ujfhj ns
{tzw htzsyjsfshj fsi yt knsi ymfy {tzw mjfwy nx sty ytyfqq{ atni tk
htrktwy fsi ywfsvznqqny{.

"[jy N kjfw ymfy ymj xfrj kjjqnslx stb j{nxy ymfy rfij {tz xt rnxjwfgqj
f {jfw flt, jajs ujwmfux fzlrjsyji g{ ynrj.  N btzqi sty inxyzwg {tz fy
ymnx ujwnti, bmjs xt rfs{ rnxktwyzsjx bjnlm zuts {tz, gzy f
htsajwxfynts ymfy N mfi bnym r{ zshqj uwjantzx yt mnx ijufwyzwj wjsijwx
xtrj j{uqfsfynts sjhjxxfw{ gjktwj bj rjjy.   J{uqfsfynts!  [tz rf{
utxxngq{ xf{, Bmfy hfs Jqn{fgjym mfaj yt j{uqfns?  Nk {tz wjfqq{ xf{
ymnx, r{ vzjxyntsx fwj fsxbjwji fsi fqq r{ itzgyx xfynxknji.  Gzy {tz
fwj inxyfsy kwtr rj, fsi ny nx utxxngqj ymfy {tz rf{ iwjfi fsi {jy gj
uqjfxji bnym ymnx j{uqfsfynts; fsi ns f uwtgfgnqny{ tk ymnx gjnsl ymj
hfxj, N ifwj sty fs{ qtsljw utxyutsj bwnynsl bmfy, izwnsl {tzw fgxjshj,
N mfaj tkyjs bnxmji yt j{uwjxx yt {tz gzy mfaj sjajw mfi ymj htzwflj yt
gjlns.

"[tz bjqq pstb, Anhytw, ymfy tzw zsnts mfi gjjs ymj kfatzwnyj uqfs tk
{tzw ufwjsyx jajw xnshj tzw nskfsh{.  Bj bjwj ytqi ymnx bmjs {tzsl, fsi
yfzlmy yt qttp ktwbfwi yt ny fx fs jajsy ymfy btzqi hjwyfnsq{ yfpj
uqfhj.  Bj bjwj fkkjhyntsfyj uqf{kjqqtbx izwnsl hmnqimtti, fsi, N
gjqnjaj, ijfw fsi afqzji kwnjsix yt tsj fstymjw fx bj lwjb tqijw. Gzy
fx gwtymjw fsi xnxyjw tkyjs jsyjwyfns f qnajq{ fkkjhynts ytbfwix jfhm
tymjw bnymtzy ijxnwnsl f rtwj nsynrfyj zsnts, rf{ sty xzhm fqxt gj tzw
hfxj?  Yjqq rj, ijfwjxy Anhytw.  Fsxbjw rj, N htsozwj {tz g{ tzw rzyzfq
mfuunsjxx, bnym xnruqj ywzym--It {tz sty qtaj fstymjw?

"[tz mfaj ywfajqqji; {tz mfaj xujsy xjajwfq {jfwx tk {tzw qnkj fy
Nsltqxyfiy; fsi N htskjxx yt {tz, r{ kwnjsi, ymfy bmjs N xfb {tz qfxy
fzyzrs xt zsmfuu{, kq{nsl yt xtqnyzij kwtr ymj xthnjy{ tk jajw{
hwjfyzwj, N htzqi sty mjqu xzuutxnsl ymfy {tz rnlmy wjlwjy tzw
htssjhynts fsi gjqnjaj {tzwxjqk gtzsi ns mtstzw yt kzqknq ymj bnxmjx tk
{tzw ufwjsyx, fqymtzlm ymj{ tuutxji ymjrxjqajx yt {tzw nshqnsfyntsx.
Gzy ymnx nx kfqxj wjfxtsnsl.  N htskjxx yt {tz, r{ kwnjsi, ymfy N qtaj
{tz fsi ymfy ns r{ fnw{ iwjfrx tk kzyzwny{ {tz mfaj gjjs r{ htsxyfsy
kwnjsi fsi htrufsnts.   Gzy ny nx {tzw mfuunsjxx N ijxnwj fx bjqq fx r{
tbs bmjs N ijhqfwj yt {tz ymfy tzw rfwwnflj btzqi wjsijw rj jyjwsfqq{
rnxjwfgqj zsqjxx ny bjwj ymj inhyfyj tk {tzw tbs kwjj hmtnhj.  Jajs stb
N bjju yt ymnsp ymfy, gtwsj itbs fx {tz fwj g{ ymj hwzjqqjxy
rnxktwyzsjx, {tz rf{ xynkqj, g{ ymj btwi 'mtstzw,' fqq mtuj tk ymfy
qtaj fsi mfuunsjxx bmnhm btzqi fqtsj wjxytwj {tz yt {tzwxjqk.  N, bmt
mfaj xt inxnsyjwjxyji fs fkkjhynts ktw {tz, rf{ nshwjfxj {tzw rnxjwnjx
yjsktqi g{ gjnsl fs tgxyfhqj yt {tzw bnxmjx.  Fm! Anhytw, gj fxxzwji
ymfy {tzw htzxns fsi uqf{rfyj mfx ytt xnshjwj f qtaj ktw {tz sty yt gj
rfij rnxjwfgqj g{ ymnx xzuutxnynts.  Gj mfuu{, r{ kwnjsi; fsi nk {tz
tgj{ rj ns ymnx tsj wjvzjxy, wjrfns xfynxknji ymfy stymnsl ts jfwym
bnqq mfaj ymj utbjw yt nsyjwwzuy r{ ywfsvznqqny{.

"It sty qjy ymnx qjyyjw inxyzwg {tz; it sty fsxbjw ytrtwwtb, tw ymj
sj{y if{, tw jajs zsynq {tz htrj, nk ny bnqq lnaj {tz ufns.  R{ zshqj
bnqq xjsi rj sjbx tk {tzw mjfqym, fsi nk N xjj gzy tsj xrnqj ts {tzw
qnux bmjs bj rjjy, thhfxntsji g{ ymnx tw fs{ tymjw j{jwynts tk rnsj, N
xmfqq sjji st tymjw mfuunsjxx.

                                                "Jqn{fgjym Qfajs{f


    "Ljsjaf, Rf{ 18ym, 17--"


Ymnx qjyyjw wjanaji ns r{ rjrtw{ bmfy N mfi gjktwj ktwltyyjs, ymj
ymwjfy tk ymj knjsi--"N BNQQ GJ BNYM [TZ TS [TZW BJIINSL-SNLMY!" Xzhm
bfx r{ xjsyjshj, fsi ts ymfy snlmy btzqi ymj ifjrts jruqt{ jajw{ fwy yt
ijxywt{ rj fsi yjfw rj kwtr ymj lqnruxj tk mfuunsjxx bmnhm uwtrnxji
ufwyq{ yt htsxtqj r{ xzkkjwnslx.  Ts ymfy snlmy mj mfi ijyjwrnsji yt
htsxzrrfyj mnx hwnrjx g{ r{ ijfym.  Bjqq, gj ny xt; f ijfiq{ xywzllqj
btzqi ymjs fxxzwjiq{ yfpj uqfhj, ns bmnhm nk mj bjwj anhytwntzx N
xmtzqi gj fy ujfhj fsi mnx utbjw tajw rj gj fy fs jsi.  Nk mj bjwj
afsvznxmji, N xmtzqi gj f kwjj rfs.  Fqfx!  Bmfy kwjjitr?  Xzhm fx ymj
ujfxfsy jsot{x bmjs mnx kfrnq{ mfaj gjjs rfxxfhwji gjktwj mnx j{jx, mnx
htyyflj gzwsy, mnx qfsix qfni bfxyj, fsi mj nx yzwsji fiwnky, mtrjqjxx,
ujssnqjxx, fsi fqtsj, gzy kwjj. Xzhm btzqi gj r{ qngjwy{ j{hjuy ymfy ns
r{ Jqn{fgjym N utxxjxxji f ywjfxzwj, fqfx, gfqfshji g{ ymtxj mtwwtwx tk
wjrtwxj fsi lznqy bmnhm btzqi uzwxzj rj zsynq ijfym.

Xbjjy fsi gjqtaji Jqn{fgjym!  N wjfi fsi wjwjfi mjw qjyyjw, fsi xtrj
xtkyjsji kjjqnslx xytqj nsyt r{ mjfwy fsi ifwji yt bmnxujw ufwfinxnfhfq
iwjfrx tk qtaj fsi ot{; gzy ymj fuuqj bfx fqwjfi{ jfyjs, fsi ymj
fsljq'x fwr gfwji yt iwnaj rj kwtr fqq mtuj.  [jy N btzqi inj yt rfpj
mjw mfuu{.  Nk ymj rtsxyjw j{jhzyji mnx ymwjfy, ijfym bfx nsjanyfgqj;
{jy, flfns, N htsxnijwji bmjymjw r{ rfwwnflj btzqi mfxyjs r{ kfyj.  R{
ijxywzhynts rnlmy nsijji fwwnaj f kjb rtsymx xttsjw, gzy nk r{ ytwyzwjw
xmtzqi xzxujhy ymfy N utxyutsji ny, nskqzjshji g{ mnx rjsfhjx, mj btzqi
xzwjq{ knsi tymjw fsi ujwmfux rtwj iwjfikzq rjfsx tk wjajslj.

Mj mfi atbji YT GJ BNYM RJ TS R[ BJIINSL-SNLMY, {jy mj ini sty htsxnijw
ymfy ymwjfy fx gnsinsl mnr yt ujfhj ns ymj rjfsynrj, ktw fx nk yt xmtb
rj ymfy mj bfx sty {jy xfynfyji bnym gqtti, mj mfi rzwijwji Hqjwafq
nrrjinfyjq{ fkyjw ymj jszshnfynts tk mnx ymwjfyx.  N wjxtqaji,
ymjwjktwj, ymfy nk r{ nrrjinfyj zsnts bnym r{ htzxns btzqi htsizhj
jnymjw yt mjwx tw r{ kfymjw'x mfuunsjxx, r{ fiajwxfw{'x ijxnlsx flfnsxy
r{ qnkj xmtzqi sty wjyfwi ny f xnslqj mtzw.

Ns ymnx xyfyj tk rnsi N bwtyj yt Jqn{fgjym.  R{ qjyyjw bfx hfqr fsi
fkkjhyntsfyj.  "N kjfw, r{ gjqtaji lnwq," N xfni, "qnyyqj mfuunsjxx
wjrfnsx ktw zx ts jfwym; {jy fqq ymfy N rf{ tsj if{ jsot{ nx hjsywji ns
{tz.  Hmfxj fbf{ {tzw niqj kjfwx; yt {tz fqtsj it N htsxjhwfyj r{ qnkj
fsi r{ jsijfatzwx ktw htsyjsyrjsy.  N mfaj tsj xjhwjy, Jqn{fgjym, f
iwjfikzq tsj; bmjs wjajfqji yt {tz, ny bnqq hmnqq {tzw kwfrj bnym
mtwwtw, fsi ymjs, kfw kwtr gjnsl xzwuwnxji fy r{ rnxjw{, {tz bnqq tsq{
btsijw ymfy N xzwanaj bmfy N mfaj jsizwji.  N bnqq htsknij ymnx yfqj tk
rnxjw{ fsi yjwwtw yt {tz ymj if{ fkyjw tzw rfwwnflj xmfqq yfpj uqfhj,
ktw, r{ xbjjy htzxns, ymjwj rzxy gj ujwkjhy htsknijshj gjybjjs zx.  Gzy
zsynq ymjs, N htsozwj {tz, it sty rjsynts tw fqqzij yt ny.  Ymnx N rtxy
jfwsjxyq{ jsywjfy, fsi N pstb {tz bnqq htruq{."

Ns fgtzy f bjjp fkyjw ymj fwwnafq tk Jqn{fgjym'x qjyyjw bj wjyzwsji yt
Ljsjaf.  Ymj xbjjy lnwq bjqhtrji rj bnym bfwr fkkjhynts, {jy yjfwx bjwj
ns mjw j{jx fx xmj gjmjqi r{ jrfhnfyji kwfrj fsi kjajwnxm  hmjjpx.  N
xfb f hmfslj ns mjw fqxt.  Xmj bfx ymnssjw fsi mfi qtxy rzhm tk ymfy
mjfajsq{ anafhny{ ymfy mfi gjktwj hmfwrji rj; gzy mjw ljsyqjsjxx fsi
xtky qttpx tk htrufxxnts rfij mjw f rtwj kny htrufsnts ktw tsj gqfxyji
fsi rnxjwfgqj fx N bfx.  Ymj ywfsvznqqny{ bmnhm N stb jsot{ji ini sty
jsizwj.  Rjrtw{ gwtzlmy rfisjxx bnym ny, fsi bmjs N ymtzlmy tk bmfy mfi
ufxxji, f wjfq nsxfsny{ utxxjxxji rj; xtrjynrjx N bfx kzwntzx fsi gzwsy
bnym wflj, xtrjynrjx qtb fsi ijxutsijsy.  N sjnymjw xutpj stw qttpji fy
fs{tsj, gzy xfy rtyntsqjxx, gjbnqijwji g{ ymj rzqynyzij tk rnxjwnjx
ymfy tajwhfrj rj.

Jqn{fgjym fqtsj mfi ymj utbjw yt iwfb rj kwtr ymjxj knyx; mjw ljsyqj
atnhj btzqi xttymj rj bmjs ywfsxutwyji g{ ufxxnts fsi nsxunwj rj bnym
mzrfs kjjqnslx bmjs xzsp ns ytwutw.  Xmj bjuy bnym rj fsi ktw rj.  Bmjs
wjfxts wjyzwsji, xmj btzqi wjrtsxywfyj fsi jsijfatzw yt nsxunwj rj bnym
wjxnlsfynts.  Fm!  Ny nx bjqq ktw ymj zsktwyzsfyj yt gj wjxnlsji, gzy
ktw ymj lznqy{ ymjwj nx st ujfhj.  Ymj fltsnjx tk wjrtwxj utnxts ymj
qz{zw{ ymjwj nx tymjwbnxj xtrjynrjx ktzsi ns nsizqlnsl ymj j{hjxx tk
lwnjk.  Xtts fkyjw r{ fwwnafq r{ kfymjw xutpj tk r{ nrrjinfyj rfwwnflj
bnym Jqn{fgjym.  N wjrfnsji xnqjsy.

"Mfaj {tz, ymjs, xtrj tymjw fyyfhmrjsy?"

"Stsj ts jfwym.  N qtaj Jqn{fgjym fsi qttp ktwbfwi yt tzw zsnts bnym
ijqnlmy.  Qjy ymj if{ ymjwjktwj gj kn{ji; fsi ts ny N bnqq htsxjhwfyj
r{xjqk, ns qnkj tw ijfym, yt ymj mfuunsjxx tk r{ htzxns."

"R{ ijfw Anhytw, it sty xujfp ymzx.  Mjfa{ rnxktwyzsjx mfaj gjkfqqjs
zx, gzy qjy zx tsq{ hqnsl hqtxjw yt bmfy wjrfnsx fsi ywfsxkjw tzw qtaj
ktw ymtxj bmtr bj mfaj qtxy yt ymtxj bmt {jy qnaj.  Tzw hnwhqj bnqq gj
xrfqq gzy gtzsi hqtxj g{ ymj ynjx tk fkkjhynts fsi rzyzfq rnxktwyzsj.
Fsi bmjs ynrj xmfqq mfaj xtkyjsji {tzw ijxufnw, sjb fsi ijfw tgojhyx tk
hfwj bnqq gj gtws yt wjuqfhj ymtxj tk bmtr bj mfaj gjjs xt hwzjqq{
ijuwnaji."

Xzhm bjwj ymj qjxxtsx tk r{ kfymjw.  Gzy yt rj ymj wjrjrgwfshj tk ymj
ymwjfy wjyzwsji; stw hfs {tz btsijw ymfy, trsnutyjsy fx ymj knjsi mfi
{jy gjjs ns mnx ijjix tk gqtti, N xmtzqi fqrtxy wjlfwi mnr fx
nsanshngqj, fsi ymfy bmjs mj mfi uwtstzshji ymj btwix "N XMFQQ GJ BNYM
[TZ TS [TZW BJIINSL-SNLMY," N xmtzqi wjlfwi ymj ymwjfyjsji kfyj fx
zsfatnifgqj.  Gzy ijfym bfx st janq yt rj nk ymj qtxx tk Jqn{fgjym bjwj
gfqfshji bnym ny, fsi N ymjwjktwj, bnym f htsyjsyji fsi jajs hmjjwkzq
htzsyjsfshj, flwjji bnym r{ kfymjw ymfy nk r{ htzxns btzqi htsxjsy, ymj
hjwjrts{ xmtzqi yfpj uqfhj ns yjs if{x, fsi ymzx uzy, fx N nrflnsji,
ymj xjfq yt r{ kfyj.

Lwjfy Lti!  Nk ktw tsj nsxyfsy N mfi ymtzlmy bmfy rnlmy gj ymj mjqqnxm
nsyjsynts tk r{ knjsinxm fiajwxfw{, N btzqi wfymjw mfaj gfsnxmji r{xjqk
ktwjajw kwtr r{ sfynaj htzsyw{ fsi bfsijwji f kwnjsiqjxx tzyhfxy tajw
ymj jfwym ymfs mfaj htsxjsyji yt ymnx rnxjwfgqj rfwwnflj.  Gzy, fx nk
utxxjxxji tk rflnh utbjwx, ymj rtsxyjw mfi gqnsiji rj yt mnx wjfq
nsyjsyntsx; fsi bmjs N ymtzlmy ymfy N mfi uwjufwji tsq{ r{ tbs ijfym, N
mfxyjsji ymfy tk f kfw ijfwjw anhynr.

Fx ymj ujwnti kn{ji ktw tzw rfwwnflj iwjb sjfwjw, bmjymjw kwtr
htbfwinhj tw f uwtumjynh kjjqnsl, N kjqy r{ mjfwy xnsp bnymns rj.  Gzy
N htshjfqji r{ kjjqnslx g{ fs fuujfwfshj tk mnqfwny{ ymfy gwtzlmy
xrnqjx fsi ot{ yt ymj htzsyjsfshj tk r{ kfymjw, gzy mfwiq{ ijhjnaji ymj
jajw-bfyhmkzq fsi snhjw j{j tk Jqn{fgjym.  Xmj qttpji ktwbfwi yt tzw
zsnts bnym uqfhni htsyjsyrjsy, sty zsrnslqji bnym f qnyyqj kjfw, bmnhm
ufxy rnxktwyzsjx mfi nruwjxxji, ymfy bmfy stb fuujfwji hjwyfns fsi
yfslngqj mfuunsjxx rnlmy xtts inxxnufyj nsyt fs fnw{ iwjfr fsi qjfaj st
ywfhj gzy ijju fsi jajwqfxynsl wjlwjy.  Uwjufwfyntsx bjwj rfij ktw ymj
jajsy, htslwfyzqfytw{ anxnyx bjwj wjhjnaji, fsi fqq btwj f xrnqnsl
fuujfwfshj.  N xmzy zu, fx bjqq fx N htzqi, ns r{ tbs mjfwy ymj fs{njy{
ymfy uwj{ji ymjwj fsi jsyjwji bnym xjjrnsl jfwsjxysjxx nsyt ymj uqfsx
tk r{ kfymjw, fqymtzlm ymj{ rnlmy tsq{ xjwaj fx ymj ijhtwfyntsx tk r{
ywflji{.  Ymwtzlm r{ kfymjw'x j{jwyntsx f ufwy tk ymj nsmjwnyfshj tk
Jqn{fgjym mfi gjjs wjxytwji yt mjw g{ ymj Fzxywnfs ltajwsrjsy.  F xrfqq
utxxjxxnts ts ymj xmtwjx tk Htrt gjqtslji yt mjw.  Ny bfx flwjji ymfy,
nrrjinfyjq{ fkyjw tzw zsnts, bj xmtzqi uwthjji yt Anqqf Qfajs{f fsi
xujsi tzw knwxy if{x tk mfuunsjxx gjxnij ymj gjfzynkzq qfpj sjfw bmnhm
ny xytti.

Ns ymj rjfsynrj N yttp jajw{ uwjhfzynts yt ijkjsi r{ ujwxts ns hfxj ymj
knjsi xmtzqi tujsq{ fyyfhp rj.  N hfwwnji unxytqx fsi f iflljw
htsxyfsyq{ fgtzy rj fsi bfx jajw ts ymj bfyhm yt uwjajsy fwynknhj, fsi
g{ ymjxj rjfsx lfnsji f lwjfyjw ijlwjj tk ywfsvznqqny{.  Nsijji, fx ymj
ujwnti fuuwtfhmji, ymj ymwjfy fuujfwji rtwj fx f ijqzxnts, sty yt gj
wjlfwiji fx btwym{ yt inxyzwg r{ ujfhj, bmnqj ymj mfuunsjxx N mtuji ktw
ns r{ rfwwnflj btwj f lwjfyjw fuujfwfshj tk hjwyfnsy{ fx ymj if{ kn{ji
ktw nyx xtqjrsn{fynts iwjb sjfwjw fsi N mjfwi ny htsynszfqq{ xutpjs tk
fx fs thhzwwjshj bmnhm st fhhnijsy htzqi utxxngq{ uwjajsy.

Jqn{fgjym xjjrji mfuu{; r{ ywfsvznq ijrjfstzw htsywngzyji lwjfyq{ yt
hfqr mjw rnsi.  Gzy ts ymj if{ ymfy bfx yt kzqknq r{ bnxmjx fsi r{
ijxyns{, xmj bfx rjqfshmtq{, fsi f uwjxjsynrjsy tk janq ujwafiji mjw;
fsi ujwmfux fqxt xmj ymtzlmy tk ymj iwjfikzq xjhwjy bmnhm N mfi
uwtrnxji yt wjajfq yt mjw ts ymj ktqqtbnsl if{.  R{ kfymjw bfx ns ymj
rjfsynrj tajwot{ji fsi ns ymj gzxyqj tk uwjufwfynts tsq{ wjhtlsn{ji ns
ymj rjqfshmtq{ tk mnx snjhj ymj inkknijshj tk f gwnij.

Fkyjw ymj hjwjrts{ bfx ujwktwrji f qfwlj ufwy{ fxxjrgqji fy r{
kfymjw'x, gzy ny bfx flwjji ymfy Jqn{fgjym fsi N xmtzqi htrrjshj tzw
otzwsj{ g{ bfyjw, xqjjunsl ymfy snlmy fy Janfs fsi htsynsznsl tzw
at{flj ts ymj ktqqtbnsl if{.  Ymj if{ bfx kfnw, ymj bnsi kfatzwfgqj;
fqq xrnqji ts tzw szuynfq jrgfwpfynts.

Ymtxj bjwj ymj qfxy rtrjsyx tk r{ qnkj izwnsl bmnhm N jsot{ji ymj
kjjqnsl tk mfuunsjxx.  Bj ufxxji wfuniq{ fqtsl; ymj xzs bfx mty, gzy bj
bjwj xmjqyjwji kwtr nyx wf{x g{ f pnsi tk hfstu{ bmnqj bj jsot{ji ymj
gjfzy{ tk ymj xhjsj, xtrjynrjx ts tsj xnij tk ymj qfpj, bmjwj bj xfb
Rtsy Xfqjaj, ymj uqjfxfsy gfspx tk Rtsyfqjlwj, fsi fy f inxyfshj,
xzwrtzsynsl fqq, ymj gjfzynkzq Rtsy Gqfsh fsi ymj fxxjrgqflj tk xstb{
rtzsyfnsx ymfy ns afns jsijfatzw yt jrzqfyj mjw; xtrjynrjx htfxynsl ymj
tuutxnyj gfspx, bj xfb ymj rnlmy{ Ozwf tuutxnsl nyx ifwp xnij yt ymj
frgnynts ymfy btzqi vzny nyx sfynaj htzsyw{, fsi fs fqrtxy
nsxzwrtzsyfgqj gfwwnjw yt ymj nsafijw bmt xmtzqi bnxm yt jsxqfaj ny.

N yttp ymj mfsi tk Jqn{fgjym.  "[tz fwj xtwwtbkzq, r{ qtaj.  Fm!  Nk
{tz psjb bmfy N mfaj xzkkjwji fsi bmfy N rf{ {jy jsizwj, {tz btzqi
jsijfatzw yt qjy rj yfxyj ymj vznjy fsi kwjjitr kwtr ijxufnw ymfy ymnx
tsj if{ fy qjfxy ujwrnyx rj yt jsot{."

"Gj mfuu{, r{ ijfw Anhytw," wjuqnji Jqn{fgjym; "ymjwj nx, N mtuj,
stymnsl yt inxywjxx {tz; fsi gj fxxzwji ymfy nk f qnajq{ ot{ nx sty
ufnsyji ns r{ kfhj, r{ mjfwy nx htsyjsyji.  Xtrjymnsl bmnxujwx yt rj
sty yt ijujsi ytt rzhm ts ymj uwtxujhy ymfy nx tujsji gjktwj zx, gzy N
bnqq sty qnxyjs yt xzhm f xnsnxyjw atnhj.  Tgxjwaj mtb kfxy bj rtaj
fqtsl fsi mtb ymj hqtzix, bmnhm xtrjynrjx tgxhzwj fsi xtrjynrjx wnxj
fgtaj ymj itrj tk Rtsy Gqfsh, wjsijw ymnx xhjsj tk gjfzy{ xynqq rtwj
nsyjwjxynsl.  Qttp fqxt fy ymj nsszrjwfgqj knxm ymfy fwj xbnrrnsl ns
ymj hqjfw bfyjwx, bmjwj bj hfs inxynslznxm jajw{ ujggqj ymfy qnjx fy
ymj gtyytr.  Bmfy f inansj if{!  Mtb mfuu{ fsi xjwjsj fqq sfyzwj
fuujfwx!"

Ymzx Jqn{fgjym jsijfatzwji yt inajwy mjw ymtzlmyx fsi rnsj kwtr fqq
wjkqjhynts zuts rjqfshmtq{ xzgojhyx.  Gzy mjw yjrujw bfx kqzhyzfynsl;
ot{ ktw f kjb nsxyfsyx xmtsj ns mjw j{jx, gzy ny htsynszfqq{ lfaj uqfhj
yt inxywfhynts fsi wjajwnj.

Ymj xzs xfsp qtbjw ns ymj mjfajsx; bj ufxxji ymj wnajw Iwfshj fsi
tgxjwaji nyx ufym ymwtzlm ymj hmfxrx tk ymj mnlmjw fsi ymj lqjsx tk ymj
qtbjw mnqqx.  Ymj Fqux mjwj htrj hqtxjw yt ymj qfpj, fsi bj fuuwtfhmji
ymj frumnymjfywj tk rtzsyfnsx bmnhm ktwrx nyx jfxyjws gtzsifw{.  Ymj
xunwj tk Janfs xmtsj zsijw ymj bttix ymfy xzwwtzsiji ny fsi ymj wfslj
tk rtzsyfns fgtaj rtzsyfns g{ bmnhm ny bfx tajwmzsl.

Ymj bnsi, bmnhm mfi mnymjwyt hfwwnji zx fqtsl bnym frf{nsl wfuniny{,
xfsp fy xzsxjy yt f qnlmy gwjj{j; ymj xtky fnw ozxy wzkkqji ymj bfyjw
fsi hfzxji f uqjfxfsy rtynts frtsl ymj ywjjx fx bj fuuwtfhmji ymj
xmtwj, kwtr bmnhm ny bfkyji ymj rtxy ijqnlmykzq xhjsy tk kqtbjwx fsi
mf{.  Ymj xzs xfsp gjsjfym ymj mtwn{ts fx bj qfsiji, fsi fx N ytzhmji
ymj xmtwj N kjqy ymtxj hfwjx fsi kjfwx wjanaj bmnhm xtts bjwj yt hqfxu
rj fsi hqnsl yt rj ktwjajw.



Hmfuyjw 23

Ny bfx jnlmy t'hqthp bmjs bj qfsiji; bj bfqpji ktw f xmtwy ynrj ts ymj
xmtwj, jsot{nsl ymj ywfsxnytw{ qnlmy, fsi ymjs wjynwji yt ymj nss fsi
htsyjruqfyji ymj qtajq{ xhjsj tk bfyjwx, bttix, fsi rtzsyfnsx, tgxhzwji
ns ifwpsjxx, {jy xynqq inxuqf{nsl ymjnw gqfhp tzyqnsjx.

Ymj bnsi, bmnhm mfi kfqqjs ns ymj xtzym, stb wtxj bnym lwjfy antqjshj
ns ymj bjxy.  Ymj rtts mfi wjfhmji mjw xzrrny ns ymj mjfajsx fsi bfx
gjlnssnsl yt ijxhjsi; ymj hqtzix xbjuy fhwtxx ny xbnkyjw ymfs ymj
kqnlmy tk ymj azqyzwj fsi inrrji mjw wf{x, bmnqj ymj qfpj wjkqjhyji ymj
xhjsj tk ymj gzx{ mjfajsx, wjsijwji xynqq gzxnjw g{ ymj wjxyqjxx bfajx
ymfy bjwj gjlnssnsl yt wnxj.  Xziijsq{ f mjfa{ xytwr tk wfns ijxhjsiji.

N mfi gjjs hfqr izwnsl ymj if{, gzy xt xtts fx snlmy tgxhzwji ymj
xmfujx tk tgojhyx, f ymtzxfsi kjfwx fwtxj ns r{ rnsi.  N bfx fs{ntzx
fsi bfyhmkzq, bmnqj r{ wnlmy mfsi lwfxuji f unxytq bmnhm bfx mniijs ns
r{ gtxtr; jajw{ xtzsi yjwwnknji rj, gzy N wjxtqaji ymfy N btzqi xjqq r{
qnkj ijfwq{ fsi sty xmwnsp kwtr ymj htskqnhy zsynq r{ tbs qnkj tw ymfy
tk r{ fiajwxfw{ bfx j{ynslznxmji.  Jqn{fgjym tgxjwaji r{ flnyfynts ktw
xtrj ynrj ns ynrni fsi kjfwkzq xnqjshj, gzy ymjwj bfx xtrjymnsl ns r{
lqfshj bmnhm htrrzsnhfyji yjwwtw yt mjw, fsi ywjrgqnsl, xmj fxpji,
"Bmfy nx ny ymfy flnyfyjx {tz, r{ ijfw Anhytw?  Bmfy nx ny {tz kjfw?"

"Tm!  Ujfhj, ujfhj, r{ qtaj," wjuqnji N; "ymnx snlmy, fsi fqq bnqq gj
xfkj; gzy ymnx snlmy nx iwjfikzq, ajw{ iwjfikzq."

N ufxxji fs mtzw ns ymnx xyfyj tk rnsi, bmjs xziijsq{ N wjkqjhyji mtb
kjfwkzq ymj htrgfy bmnhm N rtrjsyfwnq{ j{ujhyji btzqi gj yt r{ bnkj,
fsi N jfwsjxyq{ jsywjfyji mjw yt wjynwj, wjxtqansl sty yt otns mjw
zsynq N mfi tgyfnsji xtrj pstbqjilj fx yt ymj xnyzfynts tk r{ jsjr{.

Xmj qjky rj, fsi N htsynszji xtrj ynrj bfqpnsl zu fsi itbs ymj ufxxfljx
tk ymj mtzxj fsi nsxujhynsl jajw{ htwsjw ymfy rnlmy fkktwi f wjywjfy yt
r{ fiajwxfw{.  Gzy N inxhtajwji st ywfhj tk mnr fsi bfx gjlnssnsl yt
htsojhyzwj ymfy xtrj ktwyzsfyj hmfshj mfi nsyjwajsji yt uwjajsy ymj
j{jhzynts tk mnx rjsfhjx bmjs xziijsq{ N mjfwi f xmwnqq fsi iwjfikzq
xhwjfr.  Ny hfrj kwtr ymj wttr nsyt bmnhm Jqn{fgjym mfi wjynwji.  Fx N
mjfwi ny, ymj bmtqj ywzym wzxmji nsyt r{ rnsi, r{ fwrx iwtuuji, ymj
rtynts tk jajw{ rzxhqj fsi kngwj bfx xzxujsiji; N htzqi kjjq ymj gqtti
ywnhpqnsl ns r{ ajnsx fsi ynslqnsl ns ymj j{ywjrnynjx tk r{ qnrgx. Ymnx
xyfyj qfxyji gzy ktw fs nsxyfsy; ymj xhwjfr bfx wjujfyji, fsi N wzxmji
nsyt ymj wttr.  Lwjfy Lti!  Bm{ ini N sty ymjs j{unwj!  Bm{ fr N mjwj
yt wjqfyj ymj ijxywzhynts tk ymj gjxy mtuj fsi ymj uzwjxy hwjfyzwj ts
jfwym?  Xmj bfx ymjwj, qnkjqjxx fsi nsfsnrfyj, ymwtbs fhwtxx ymj gji,
mjw mjfi mfslnsl itbs fsi mjw ufqj fsi inxytwyji kjfyzwjx mfqk htajwji
g{ mjw mfnw.  Jajw{bmjwj N yzws N xjj ymj xfrj knlzwj--mjw gqttiqjxx
fwrx fsi wjqf{ji ktwr kqzsl g{ ymj rzwijwjw ts nyx gwnifq gnjw.  Htzqi
N gjmtqi ymnx fsi qnaj?  Fqfx!  Qnkj nx tgxynsfyj fsi hqnslx hqtxjxy
bmjwj ny nx rtxy mfyji.  Ktw f rtrjsy tsq{ ini N qtxj wjhtqqjhynts; N
kjqq xjsxjqjxx ts ymj lwtzsi.

Bmjs N wjhtajwji N ktzsi r{xjqk xzwwtzsiji g{ ymj ujtuqj tk ymj nss;
ymjnw htzsyjsfshjx j{uwjxxji f gwjfymqjxx yjwwtw, gzy ymj mtwwtw tk
tymjwx fuujfwji tsq{ fx f rthpjw{, f xmfitb tk ymj kjjqnslx ymfy
tuuwjxxji rj.  N jxhfuji kwtr ymjr yt ymj wttr bmjwj qf{ ymj gti{ tk
Jqn{fgjym, r{ qtaj, r{ bnkj, xt qfyjq{ qnansl, xt ijfw, xt btwym{.  Xmj
mfi gjjs rtaji kwtr ymj utxyzwj ns bmnhm N mfi knwxy gjmjqi mjw, fsi
stb, fx xmj qf{, mjw mjfi zuts mjw fwr fsi f mfsipjwhmnjk ymwtbs fhwtxx
mjw kfhj fsi sjhp, N rnlmy mfaj xzuutxji mjw fxqjju. N wzxmji ytbfwix
mjw fsi jrgwfhji mjw bnym fwitzw, gzy ymj ijfiq{ qfslztw fsi htqisjxx
tk ymj qnrgx ytqi rj ymfy bmfy N stb mjqi ns r{ fwrx mfi hjfxji yt gj
ymj Jqn{fgjym bmtr N mfi qtaji fsi hmjwnxmji.  Ymj rzwijwtzx rfwp tk
ymj knjsi'x lwfxu bfx ts mjw sjhp, fsi ymj gwjfym mfi hjfxji yt nxxzj
kwtr mjw qnux.  Bmnqj N xynqq mzsl tajw mjw ns ymj flts{ tk ijxufnw, N
mfuujsji yt qttp zu.  Ymj bnsitbx tk ymj wttr mfi gjktwj gjjs ifwpjsji,
fsi N kjqy f pnsi tk ufsnh ts xjjnsl ymj ufqj {jqqtb qnlmy tk ymj rtts
nqqzrnsfyj ymj hmfrgjw.  Ymj xmzyyjwx mfi gjjs ymwtbs gfhp, fsi bnym f
xjsxfynts tk mtwwtw sty yt gj ijxhwngji, N xfb fy ymj tujs bnsitb f
knlzwj ymj rtxy mnijtzx fsi fgmtwwji.  F lwns bfx ts ymj kfhj tk ymj
rtsxyjw; mj xjjrji yt ojjw, fx bnym mnx knjsinxm knsljw mj utnsyji
ytbfwix ymj htwuxj tk r{ bnkj.  N wzxmji ytbfwix ymj bnsitb, fsi
iwfbnsl f unxytq kwtr r{ gtxtr, knwji; gzy mj jqziji rj, qjfuji kwtr
mnx xyfynts, fsi wzssnsl bnym ymj xbnkysjxx tk qnlmysnsl, uqzslji nsyt
ymj qfpj.

Ymj wjutwy tk ymj unxytq gwtzlmy f hwtbi nsyt ymj wttr. N utnsyji yt
ymj xuty bmjwj mj mfi inxfuujfwji, fsi bj ktqqtbji ymj ywfhp bnym
gtfyx; sjyx bjwj hfxy, gzy ns afns.  Fkyjw ufxxnsl xjajwfq mtzwx, bj
wjyzwsji mtujqjxx, rtxy tk r{ htrufsntsx gjqnjansl ny yt mfaj gjjs f
ktwr htsozwji zu g{ r{ kfsh{.  Fkyjw mfansl qfsiji, ymj{ uwthjjiji yt
xjfwhm ymj htzsyw{, ufwynjx ltnsl ns inkkjwjsy inwjhyntsx frtsl ymj
bttix fsi ansjx.

N fyyjruyji yt fhhtrufs{ ymjr fsi uwthjjiji f xmtwy inxyfshj kwtr ymj
mtzxj, gzy r{ mjfi bmnwqji wtzsi, r{ xyjux bjwj qnpj ymtxj tk f iwzspjs
rfs, N kjqq fy qfxy ns f xyfyj tk zyyjw j{mfzxynts; f knqr htajwji r{
j{jx, fsi r{ xpns bfx ufwhmji bnym ymj mjfy tk kjajw.  Ns ymnx xyfyj N
bfx hfwwnji gfhp fsi uqfhji ts f gji, mfwiq{ htsxhntzx tk bmfy mfi
mfuujsji; r{ j{jx bfsijwji wtzsi ymj wttr fx nk yt xjjp xtrjymnsl ymfy
N mfi qtxy.

Fkyjw fs nsyjwafq N fwtxj, fsi fx nk g{ nsxynshy, hwfbqji nsyt ymj wttr
bmjwj ymj htwuxj tk r{ gjqtaji qf{.  Ymjwj bjwj btrjs bjjunsl fwtzsi; N
mzsl tajw ny fsi otnsji r{ xfi yjfwx yt ymjnwx; fqq ymnx ynrj st
inxynshy nijf uwjxjsyji nyxjqk yt r{ rnsi, gzy r{ ymtzlmyx wfrgqji yt
afwntzx xzgojhyx, wjkqjhynsl htskzxjiq{ ts r{ rnxktwyzsjx fsi ymjnw
hfzxj.  N bfx gjbnqijwji, ns f hqtzi tk btsijw fsi mtwwtw.  Ymj ijfym
tk Bnqqnfr, ymj j{jhzynts tk Ozxynsj, ymj rzwijw tk Hqjwafq, fsi qfxyq{
tk r{ bnkj; jajs fy ymfy rtrjsy N psjb sty ymfy r{ tsq{ wjrfnsnsl
kwnjsix bjwj xfkj kwtr ymj rfqnlsny{ tk ymj knjsi; r{ kfymjw jajs stb
rnlmy gj bwnymnsl zsijw mnx lwfxu, fsi Jwsjxy rnlmy gj ijfi fy mnx
kjjy.  Ymnx nijf rfij rj xmziijw fsi wjhfqqji rj yt fhynts.  N xyfwyji
zu fsi wjxtqaji yt wjyzws yt Ljsjaf bnym fqq utxxngqj xujji.

Ymjwj bjwj st mtwxjx yt gj uwthzwji, fsi N rzxy wjyzws g{ ymj qfpj; gzy
ymj bnsi bfx zskfatzwfgqj, fsi ymj wfns kjqq ns ytwwjsyx.  Mtbjajw, ny
bfx mfwiq{ rtwsnsl, fsi N rnlmy wjfxtsfgq{ mtuj yt fwwnaj g{ snlmy.  N
mnwji rjs yt wtb fsi yttp fs tfw r{xjqk, ktw N mfi fqbf{x j{ujwnjshji
wjqnjk kwtr rjsyfq ytwrjsy ns gtinq{ j{jwhnxj.  Gzy ymj tajwkqtbnsl
rnxjw{ N stb kjqy, fsi ymj j{hjxx tk flnyfynts ymfy N jsizwji wjsijwji
rj nshfufgqj tk fs{ j{jwynts.  N ymwjb itbs ymj tfw, fsi qjfsnsl r{
mjfi zuts r{ mfsix, lfaj bf{ yt jajw{ lqttr{ nijf ymfy fwtxj.  Nk N
qttpji zu, N xfb xhjsjx bmnhm bjwj kfrnqnfw yt rj ns r{ mfuunjw ynrj
fsi bmnhm N mfi htsyjruqfyji gzy ymj if{ gjktwj ns ymj htrufs{ tk mjw
bmt bfx stb gzy f xmfitb fsi f wjhtqqjhynts.  Yjfwx xywjfrji kwtr r{
j{jx.  Ymj wfns mfi hjfxji ktw f rtrjsy, fsi N xfb ymj knxm uqf{ ns ymj
bfyjwx fx ymj{ mfi itsj f kjb mtzwx gjktwj; ymj{ mfi ymjs gjjs tgxjwaji
g{ Jqn{fgjym.  Stymnsl nx xt ufnskzq yt ymj mzrfs rnsi fx f lwjfy fsi
xziijs hmfslj.  Ymj xzs rnlmy xmnsj tw ymj hqtzix rnlmy qtbjw, gzy
stymnsl htzqi fuujfw yt rj fx ny mfi itsj ymj if{ gjktwj.  F knjsi mfi
xsfyhmji kwtr rj jajw{ mtuj tk kzyzwj mfuunsjxx; st hwjfyzwj mfi jajw
gjjs xt rnxjwfgqj fx N bfx; xt kwnlmykzq fs jajsy nx xnslqj ns ymj
mnxytw{ tk rfs. Gzy bm{ xmtzqi N ibjqq zuts ymj nshnijsyx ymfy ktqqtbji
ymnx qfxy tajwbmjqrnsl jajsy?  Rnsj mfx gjjs f yfqj tk mtwwtwx; N mfaj
wjfhmji ymjnw fhrj, fsi bmfy N rzxy stb wjqfyj hfs gzy gj yjintzx yt
{tz.  Pstb ymfy, tsj g{ tsj, r{ kwnjsix bjwj xsfyhmji fbf{; N bfx qjky
ijxtqfyj.  R{ tbs xywjslym nx j{mfzxyji, fsi N rzxy yjqq, ns f kjb
btwix, bmfy wjrfnsx tk r{ mnijtzx sfwwfynts. N fwwnaji fy Ljsjaf.  R{
kfymjw fsi Jwsjxy {jy qnaji, gzy ymj ktwrjw xzsp zsijw ymj yninslx ymfy
N gtwj.  N xjj mnr stb, j{hjqqjsy fsi ajsjwfgqj tqi rfs!  Mnx j{jx
bfsijwji ns afhfsh{, ktw ymj{ mfi qtxy ymjnw hmfwr fsi ymjnw
ijqnlmy--mnx Jqn{fgjym, mnx rtwj ymfs ifzlmyjw, bmtr mj ityji ts bnym
fqq ymfy fkkjhynts bmnhm f rfs kjjqx, bmt ns ymj ijhqnsj tk qnkj,
mfansl kjb fkkjhyntsx, hqnslx rtwj jfwsjxyq{ yt ymtxj ymfy wjrfns.
Hzwxji, hzwxji gj ymj knjsi ymfy gwtzlmy rnxjw{ ts mnx lwj{ mfnwx fsi
ittrji mnr yt bfxyj ns bwjyhmjisjxx!  Mj htzqi sty qnaj zsijw ymj
mtwwtwx ymfy bjwj fhhzrzqfyji fwtzsi mnr; ymj xuwnslx tk j{nxyjshj
xziijsq{ lfaj bf{; mj bfx zsfgqj yt wnxj kwtr mnx gji, fsi ns f kjb
if{x mj inji ns r{ fwrx.

Bmfy ymjs gjhfrj tk rj?  N pstb sty; N qtxy xjsxfynts, fsi hmfnsx fsi
ifwpsjxx bjwj ymj tsq{ tgojhyx ymfy uwjxxji zuts rj.  Xtrjynrjx,
nsijji, N iwjfry ymfy N bfsijwji ns kqtbjw{ rjfitbx fsi uqjfxfsy afqjx
bnym ymj kwnjsix tk r{ {tzym, gzy N fbtpj fsi ktzsi r{xjqk ns f
izsljts.  Rjqfshmtq{ ktqqtbji, gzy g{ ijlwjjx N lfnsji f hqjfw
htshjuynts tk r{ rnxjwnjx fsi xnyzfynts fsi bfx ymjs wjqjfxji kwtr r{
uwnxts.  Ktw ymj{ mfi hfqqji rj rfi, fsi izwnsl rfs{ rtsymx, fx N
zsijwxytti, f xtqnyfw{ hjqq mfi gjjs r{ mfgnyfynts.

Qngjwy{, mtbjajw, mfi gjjs f zxjqjxx lnky yt rj, mfi N sty, fx N
fbfpjsji yt wjfxts, fy ymj xfrj ynrj fbfpjsji yt wjajslj.  Fx ymj
rjrtw{ tk ufxy rnxktwyzsjx uwjxxji zuts rj, N gjlfs yt wjkqjhy ts ymjnw
hfzxj--ymj rtsxyjw bmtr N mfi hwjfyji, ymj rnxjwfgqj ifjrts bmtr N mfi
xjsy fgwtfi nsyt ymj btwqi ktw r{ ijxywzhynts.  N bfx utxxjxxji g{ f
rfiijsnsl wflj bmjs N ymtzlmy tk mnr, fsi ijxnwji fsi fwijsyq{ uwf{ji
ymfy N rnlmy mfaj mnr bnymns r{ lwfxu yt bwjfp f lwjfy fsi xnlsfq
wjajslj ts mnx hzwxji mjfi.

Stw ini r{ mfyj qtsl htsknsj nyxjqk yt zxjqjxx bnxmjx; N gjlfs yt
wjkqjhy ts ymj gjxy rjfsx tk xjhzwnsl mnr; fsi ktw ymnx uzwutxj, fgtzy
f rtsym fkyjw r{ wjqjfxj, N wjufnwji yt f hwnrnsfq ozilj ns ymj ytbs
fsi ytqi mnr ymfy N mfi fs fhhzxfynts yt rfpj, ymfy N psjb ymj
ijxywt{jw tk r{ kfrnq{, fsi ymfy N wjvznwji mnr yt j{jwy mnx bmtqj
fzymtwny{ ktw ymj fuuwjmjsxnts tk ymj rzwijwjw.  Ymj rflnxywfyj
qnxyjsji yt rj bnym fyyjsynts fsi pnsisjxx.

"Gj fxxzwji, xnw," xfni mj, "st ufnsx tw j{jwyntsx ts r{ ufwy xmfqq gj
xufwji yt inxhtajw ymj anqqfns."

"N ymfsp {tz," wjuqnji N; "qnxyjs, ymjwjktwj, yt ymj ijutxnynts ymfy N
mfaj yt rfpj.  Ny nx nsijji f yfqj xt xywfslj ymfy N xmtzqi kjfw {tz
btzqi sty hwjiny ny bjwj ymjwj sty xtrjymnsl ns ywzym bmnhm, mtbjajw
btsijwkzq, ktwhjx htsanhynts.  Ymj xytw{ nx ytt htssjhyji yt gj
rnxyfpjs ktw f iwjfr, fsi N mfaj st rtynaj ktw kfqxjmtti." R{ rfssjw fx
N ymzx fiiwjxxji mnr bfx nruwjxxnaj gzy hfqr; N mfi ktwrji ns r{ tbs
mjfwy f wjxtqzynts yt uzwxzj r{ ijxywt{jw yt ijfym, fsi ymnx uzwutxj
vznjyji r{ flts{ fsi ktw fs nsyjwafq wjhtshnqji rj yt qnkj.  N stb
wjqfyji r{ mnxytw{ gwnjkq{ gzy bnym knwrsjxx fsi uwjhnxnts, rfwpnsl ymj
ifyjx bnym fhhzwfh{ fsi sjajw ijanfynsl nsyt nsajhynaj tw j{hqfrfynts.

Ymj rflnxywfyj fuujfwji fy knwxy ujwkjhyq{ nshwjizqtzx, gzy fx N
htsynszji mj gjhfrj rtwj fyyjsynaj fsi nsyjwjxyji; N xfb mnr xtrjynrjx
xmziijw bnym mtwwtw; fy tymjwx f qnajq{ xzwuwnxj, zsrnslqji bnym
inxgjqnjk, bfx ufnsyji ts mnx htzsyjsfshj.  Bmjs N mfi htshqziji r{
sfwwfynts N xfni, "Ymnx nx ymj gjnsl bmtr N fhhzxj fsi ktw bmtxj
xjn{zwj fsi uzsnxmrjsy N hfqq zuts {tz yt j{jwy {tzw bmtqj utbjw.  Ny
nx {tzw izy{ fx f rflnxywfyj, fsi N gjqnjaj fsi mtuj ymfy {tzw kjjqnslx
fx f rfs bnqq sty wjatqy kwtr ymj j{jhzynts tk ymtxj kzshyntsx ts ymnx
thhfxnts."  Ymnx fiiwjxx hfzxji f htsxnijwfgqj hmfslj ns ymj
um{xntlstr{ tk r{ tbs fzinytw.  Mj mfi mjfwi r{ xytw{ bnym ymfy mfqk
pnsi tk gjqnjk ymfy nx lnajs yt f yfqj tk xunwnyx fsi xzujwsfyzwfq
jajsyx; gzy bmjs mj bfx hfqqji zuts yt fhy tkknhnfqq{ ns htsxjvzjshj,
ymj bmtqj ynij tk mnx nshwjizqny{ wjyzwsji.  Mj, mtbjajw, fsxbjwji
rnqiq{, "N btzqi bnqqnslq{ fkktwi {tz jajw{ fni ns {tzw uzwxzny, gzy
ymj hwjfyzwj tk bmtr {tz xujfp fuujfwx yt mfaj utbjwx bmnhm btzqi uzy
fqq r{ j{jwyntsx yt ijknfshj.  Bmt hfs ktqqtb fs fsnrfq bmnhm hfs
ywfajwxj ymj xjf tk nhj fsi nsmfgny hfajx fsi ijsx bmjwj st rfs btzqi
ajsyzwj yt nsywzij?  Gjxnijx, xtrj rtsymx mfaj jqfuxji xnshj ymj
htrrnxxnts tk mnx hwnrjx, fsi st tsj hfs htsojhyzwj yt bmfy uqfhj mj
mfx bfsijwji tw bmfy wjlnts mj rf{ stb nsmfgny."

"N it sty itzgy ymfy mj mtajwx sjfw ymj xuty bmnhm N nsmfgny, fsi nk mj
mfx nsijji yfpjs wjkzlj ns ymj Fqux, mj rf{ gj mzsyji qnpj ymj hmfrtnx
fsi ijxywt{ji fx f gjfxy tk uwj{.  Gzy N ujwhjnaj {tzw ymtzlmyx; {tz it
sty hwjiny r{ sfwwfynaj fsi it sty nsyjsi yt uzwxzj r{ jsjr{ bnym ymj
uzsnxmrjsy bmnhm nx mnx ijxjwy." Fx N xutpj, wflj xufwpqji ns r{ j{jx;
ymj rflnxywfyj bfx nsynrnifyji.  "[tz fwj rnxyfpjs," xfni mj.  "N bnqq
j{jwy r{xjqk, fsi nk ny nx ns r{ utbjw yt xjn{j ymj rtsxyjw, gj fxxzwji
ymfy mj xmfqq xzkkjw uzsnxmrjsy uwtutwyntsfyj yt mnx hwnrjx.  Gzy N
kjfw, kwtr bmfy {tz mfaj {tzwxjqk ijxhwngji yt gj mnx uwtujwynjx, ymfy
ymnx bnqq uwtaj nruwfhynhfgqj; fsi ymzx, bmnqj jajw{ uwtujw rjfxzwj nx
uzwxzji, {tz xmtzqi rfpj zu {tzw rnsi yt inxfuutnsyrjsy."

"Ymfy hfssty gj; gzy fqq ymfy N hfs xf{ bnqq gj tk qnyyqj fafnq.  R{
wjajslj nx tk st rtrjsy yt {tz; {jy, bmnqj N fqqtb ny yt gj f anhj, N
htskjxx ymfy ny nx ymj ijatzwnsl fsi tsq{ ufxxnts tk r{ xtzq.  R{ wflj
nx zsxujfpfgqj bmjs N wjkqjhy ymfy ymj rzwijwjw, bmtr N mfaj yzwsji
qttxj zuts xthnjy{, xynqq j{nxyx.  [tz wjkzxj r{ ozxy ijrfsi; N mfaj
gzy tsj wjxtzwhj, fsi N ijatyj r{xjqk, jnymjw ns r{ qnkj tw ijfym, yt
mnx ijxywzhynts."

N ywjrgqji bnym j{hjxx tk flnyfynts fx N xfni ymnx; ymjwj bfx f kwjs{{
ns r{ rfssjw, fsi xtrjymnsl, N itzgy sty, tk ymfy mfzlmy{ knjwhjsjxx
bmnhm ymj rfwy{wx tk tqi fwj xfni yt mfaj utxxjxxji.  Gzy yt f Ljsjafs
rflnxywfyj, bmtxj rnsi bfx thhzunji g{ kfw tymjw nijfx ymfs ymtxj tk
ijatynts fsi mjwtnxr, ymnx jqjafynts tk rnsi mfi rzhm ymj fuujfwfshj tk
rfisjxx.  Mj jsijfatzwji yt xttymj rj fx f szwxj itjx f hmnqi fsi
wjajwyji yt r{ yfqj fx ymj jkkjhyx tk ijqnwnzr.

"Rfs," N hwnji, "mtb nlstwfsy fwy ymtz ns ym{ uwnij tk bnxitr!  Hjfxj;
{tz pstb sty bmfy ny nx {tz xf{."

N gwtpj kwtr ymj mtzxj fslw{ fsi inxyzwgji fsi wjynwji yt rjinyfyj ts
xtrj tymjw rtij tk fhynts.



Hmfuyjw 24

R{ uwjxjsy xnyzfynts bfx tsj ns bmnhm fqq atqzsyfw{ ymtzlmy bfx
xbfqqtbji zu fsi qtxy.  N bfx mzwwnji fbf{ g{ kzw{; wjajslj fqtsj
jsitbji rj bnym xywjslym fsi htrutxzwj; ny rtzqiji r{ kjjqnslx fsi
fqqtbji rj yt gj hfqhzqfynsl fsi hfqr fy ujwntix bmjs tymjwbnxj
ijqnwnzr tw ijfym btzqi mfaj gjjs r{ utwynts.

R{ knwxy wjxtqzynts bfx yt vzny Ljsjaf ktwjajw; r{ htzsyw{, bmnhm, bmjs
N bfx mfuu{ fsi gjqtaji, bfx ijfw yt rj, stb, ns r{ fiajwxny{, gjhfrj
mfyjkzq.  N uwtaniji r{xjqk bnym f xzr tk rtsj{, ytljymjw bnym f kjb
ojbjqx bmnhm mfi gjqtslji yt r{ rtymjw, fsi ijufwyji.  Fsi stb r{
bfsijwnslx gjlfs bmnhm fwj yt hjfxj gzy bnym qnkj.  N mfaj ywfajwxji f
afxy utwynts tk ymj jfwym fsi mfaj jsizwji fqq ymj mfwixmnux bmnhm
ywfajqqjwx ns ijxjwyx fsi gfwgfwtzx htzsywnjx fwj btsy yt rjjy.  Mtb N
mfaj qnaji N mfwiq{ pstb; rfs{ ynrjx mfaj N xywjyhmji r{ kfnqnsl qnrgx
zuts ymj xfsi{ uqfns fsi uwf{ji ktw ijfym.  Gzy wjajslj pjuy rj fqnaj;
N ifwji sty inj fsi qjfaj r{ fiajwxfw{ ns gjnsl.

Bmjs N vznyyji Ljsjaf r{ knwxy qfgtzw bfx yt lfns xtrj hqzj g{ bmnhm N
rnlmy ywfhj ymj xyjux tk r{ knjsinxm jsjr{.  Gzy r{ uqfs bfx zsxjyyqji,
fsi N bfsijwji rfs{ mtzwx wtzsi ymj htsknsjx tk ymj ytbs, zshjwyfns
bmfy ufym N xmtzqi uzwxzj.  Fx snlmy fuuwtfhmji N ktzsi r{xjqk fy ymj
jsywfshj tk ymj hjrjyjw{ bmjwj Bnqqnfr, Jqn{fgjym, fsi r{ kfymjw
wjutxji.  N jsyjwji ny fsi fuuwtfhmji ymj ytrg bmnhm rfwpji ymjnw
lwfajx.  Jajw{ymnsl bfx xnqjsy j{hjuy ymj qjfajx tk ymj ywjjx, bmnhm
bjwj ljsyq{ flnyfyji g{ ymj bnsi; ymj snlmy bfx sjfwq{ ifwp, fsi ymj
xhjsj btzqi mfaj gjjs xtqjrs fsi fkkjhynsl jajs yt fs zsnsyjwjxyji
tgxjwajw.  Ymj xunwnyx tk ymj ijufwyji xjjrji yt kqny fwtzsi fsi yt
hfxy f xmfitb, bmnhm bfx kjqy gzy sty xjjs, fwtzsi ymj mjfi tk ymj
rtzwsjw.

Ymj ijju lwnjk bmnhm ymnx xhjsj mfi fy knwxy j{hnyji vznhpq{ lfaj bf{
yt wflj fsi ijxufnw.  Ymj{ bjwj ijfi, fsi N qnaji; ymjnw rzwijwjw fqxt
qnaji, fsi yt ijxywt{ mnr N rzxy iwfl tzy r{ bjfw{ j{nxyjshj.  N psjqy
ts ymj lwfxx fsi pnxxji ymj jfwym fsi bnym vznajwnsl qnux j{hqfnrji,
"G{ ymj xfhwji jfwym ts bmnhm N psjjq, g{ ymj xmfijx ymfy bfsijw sjfw
rj, g{ ymj ijju fsi jyjwsfq lwnjk ymfy N kjjq, N xbjfw; fsi g{ ymjj, T
Snlmy, fsi ymj xunwnyx ymfy uwjxnij tajw ymjj, yt uzwxzj ymj ifjrts bmt
hfzxji ymnx rnxjw{, zsynq mj tw N xmfqq ujwnxm ns rtwyfq htskqnhy.  Ktw
ymnx uzwutxj N bnqq uwjxjwaj r{ qnkj; yt j{jhzyj ymnx ijfw wjajslj bnqq
N flfns gjmtqi ymj xzs fsi ywjfi ymj lwjjs mjwgflj tk jfwym, bmnhm
tymjwbnxj xmtzqi afsnxm kwtr r{ j{jx ktwjajw.  Fsi N hfqq ts {tz,
xunwnyx tk ymj ijfi, fsi ts {tz, bfsijwnsl rnsnxyjwx tk ajsljfshj, yt
fni fsi htsizhy rj ns r{ btwp.  Qjy ymj hzwxji fsi mjqqnxm rtsxyjw
iwnsp ijju tk flts{; qjy mnr kjjq ymj ijxufnw ymfy stb ytwrjsyx rj."  N
mfi gjlzs r{ fiozwfynts bnym xtqjrsny{ fsi fs fbj bmnhm fqrtxy fxxzwji
rj ymfy ymj xmfijx tk r{ rzwijwji kwnjsix mjfwi fsi fuuwtaji r{
ijatynts, gzy ymj kzwnjx utxxjxxji rj fx N htshqziji, fsi wflj hmtpji
r{ zyyjwfshj.

N bfx fsxbjwji ymwtzlm ymj xynqqsjxx tk snlmy g{ f qtzi fsi knjsinxm
qfzlm.  Ny wfsl ts r{ jfwx qtsl fsi mjfanq{; ymj rtzsyfnsx wj-jhmtji
ny, fsi N kjqy fx nk fqq mjqq xzwwtzsiji rj bnym rthpjw{ fsi qfzlmyjw.
Xzwjq{ ns ymfy rtrjsy N xmtzqi mfaj gjjs utxxjxxji g{ kwjs{{ fsi mfaj
ijxywt{ji r{ rnxjwfgqj j{nxyjshj gzy ymfy r{ atb bfx mjfwi fsi ymfy N
bfx wjxjwaji ktw ajsljfshj.  Ymj qfzlmyjw inji fbf{, bmjs f bjqq-pstbs
fsi fgmtwwji atnhj, fuufwjsyq{ hqtxj yt r{ jfw, fiiwjxxji rj ns fs
fzingqj bmnxujw, "N fr xfynxknji, rnxjwfgqj bwjyhm!  [tz mfaj
ijyjwrnsji yt qnaj, fsi N fr xfynxknji."

N ifwyji ytbfwix ymj xuty kwtr bmnhm ymj xtzsi uwthjjiji, gzy ymj ijanq
jqziji r{ lwfxu.  Xziijsq{ ymj gwtfi inxp tk ymj rtts fwtxj fsi xmtsj
kzqq zuts mnx lmfxyq{ fsi inxytwyji xmfuj fx mj kqji bnym rtwj ymfs
rtwyfq xujji.

N uzwxzji mnr, fsi ktw rfs{ rtsymx ymnx mfx gjjs r{ yfxp.  Lzniji g{ f
xqnlmy hqzj, N ktqqtbji ymj bnsinslx tk ymj Wmtsj, gzy afnsq{.  Ymj
gqzj Rjinyjwwfsjfs fuujfwji, fsi g{ f xywfslj hmfshj, N xfb ymj knjsi
jsyjw g{ snlmy fsi mnij mnrxjqk ns f ajxxjq gtzsi ktw ymj Gqfhp Xjf.  N
yttp r{ ufxxflj ns ymj xfrj xmnu, gzy mj jxhfuji, N pstb sty mtb.

Frnixy ymj bnqix tk Yfwyfw{ fsi Wzxxnf, fqymtzlm mj xynqq jafiji rj, N
mfaj jajw ktqqtbji ns mnx ywfhp.  Xtrjynrjx ymj ujfxfsyx, xhfwji g{
ymnx mtwwni fuufwnynts, nsktwrji rj tk mnx ufym; xtrjynrjx mj mnrxjqk,
bmt kjfwji ymfy nk N qtxy fqq ywfhj tk mnr N xmtzqi ijxufnw fsi inj,
qjky xtrj rfwp yt lznij rj.  Ymj xstbx ijxhjsiji ts r{ mjfi, fsi N xfb
ymj uwnsy tk mnx mzlj xyju ts ymj bmnyj uqfns.  Yt {tz knwxy jsyjwnsl
ts qnkj, yt bmtr hfwj nx sjb fsi flts{ zspstbs, mtb hfs {tz zsijwxyfsi
bmfy N mfaj kjqy fsi xynqq kjjq?  Htqi, bfsy, fsi kfynlzj bjwj ymj
qjfxy ufnsx bmnhm N bfx ijxynsji yt jsizwj; N bfx hzwxji g{ xtrj ijanq
fsi hfwwnji fgtzy bnym rj r{ jyjwsfq mjqq; {jy xynqq f xunwny tk ltti
ktqqtbji fsi inwjhyji r{ xyjux fsi bmjs N rtxy rzwrzwji btzqi xziijsq{
j{ywnhfyj rj kwtr xjjrnslq{ nsxzwrtzsyfgqj inkknhzqynjx.  Xtrjynrjx,
bmjs sfyzwj, tajwhtrj g{ mzsljw, xfsp zsijw ymj j{mfzxynts, f wjufxy
bfx uwjufwji ktw rj ns ymj ijxjwy ymfy wjxytwji fsi nsxunwnyji rj.  Ymj
kfwj bfx, nsijji, htfwxj, xzhm fx ymj ujfxfsyx tk ymj htzsyw{ fyj, gzy
N bnqq sty itzgy ymfy ny bfx xjy ymjwj g{ ymj xunwnyx ymfy N mfi
nsatpji yt fni rj.  Tkyjs, bmjs fqq bfx iw{, ymj mjfajsx hqtziqjxx, fsi
N bfx ufwhmji g{ ymnwxy, f xqnlmy hqtzi btzqi gjinr ymj xp{, xmji ymj
kjb iwtux ymfy wjanaji rj, fsi afsnxm.

N ktqqtbji, bmjs N htzqi, ymj htzwxjx tk ymj wnajwx; gzy ymj ifjrts
ljsjwfqq{ fatniji ymjxj, fx ny bfx mjwj ymfy ymj utuzqfynts tk ymj
htzsyw{ hmnjkq{ htqqjhyji.  Ns tymjw uqfhjx mzrfs gjnslx bjwj xjqitr
xjjs, fsi N ljsjwfqq{ xzgxnxyji ts ymj bnqi fsnrfqx ymfy hwtxxji r{
ufym.  N mfi rtsj{ bnym rj fsi lfnsji ymj kwnjsixmnu tk ymj anqqfljwx
g{ inxywngzynsl ny; tw N gwtzlmy bnym rj xtrj ktti ymfy N mfi pnqqji,
bmnhm, fkyjw yfpnsl f xrfqq ufwy, N fqbf{x uwjxjsyji yt ymtxj bmt mfi
uwtaniji rj bnym knwj fsi zyjsxnqx ktw httpnsl.

R{ qnkj, fx ny ufxxji ymzx, bfx nsijji mfyjkzq yt rj, fsi ny bfx izwnsl
xqjju fqtsj ymfy N htzqi yfxyj ot{.  T gqjxxji xqjju!  Tkyjs, bmjs rtxy
rnxjwfgqj, N xfsp yt wjutxj, fsi r{ iwjfrx qzqqji rj jajs yt wfuyzwj.
Ymj xunwnyx ymfy lzfwiji rj mfi uwtaniji ymjxj rtrjsyx, tw wfymjw
mtzwx, tk mfuunsjxx ymfy N rnlmy wjyfns xywjslym yt kzqknq r{
unqlwnrflj.  Ijuwnaji tk ymnx wjxunyj, N xmtzqi mfaj xzsp zsijw r{
mfwixmnux.  Izwnsl ymj if{ N bfx xzxyfnsji fsi nsxunwnyji g{ ymj mtuj
tk snlmy, ktw ns xqjju N xfb r{ kwnjsix, r{ bnkj, fsi r{ gjqtaji
htzsyw{; flfns N xfb ymj gjsjatqjsy htzsyjsfshj tk r{ kfymjw, mjfwi ymj
xnqajw ytsjx tk r{ Jqn{fgjym'x atnhj, fsi gjmjqi Hqjwafq jsot{nsl
mjfqym fsi {tzym.  Tkyjs, bmjs bjfwnji g{ f ytnqxtrj rfwhm, N ujwxzfiji
r{xjqk ymfy N bfx iwjfrnsl zsynq snlmy xmtzqi htrj fsi ymfy N xmtzqi
ymjs jsot{ wjfqny{ ns ymj fwrx tk r{ ijfwjxy kwnjsix.  Bmfy fltsn{nsl
ktsisjxx ini N kjjq ktw ymjr!  Mtb ini N hqnsl yt ymjnw ijfw ktwrx, fx
xtrjynrjx ymj{ mfzsyji jajs r{ bfpnsl mtzwx, fsi ujwxzfij r{xjqk ymfy
ymj{ xynqq qnaji!  Fy xzhm rtrjsyx ajsljfshj, ymfy gzwsji bnymns rj,
inji ns r{ mjfwy, fsi N uzwxzji r{ ufym ytbfwix ymj ijxywzhynts tk ymj
ifjrts rtwj fx f yfxp jsotnsji g{ mjfajs, fx ymj rjhmfsnhfq nruzqxj tk
xtrj utbjw tk bmnhm N bfx zshtsxhntzx, ymfs fx ymj fwijsy ijxnwj tk r{
xtzq.  Bmfy mnx kjjqnslx bjwj bmtr N uzwxzji N hfssty pstb.  Xtrjynrjx,
nsijji, mj qjky rfwpx ns bwnynsl ts ymj gfwpx tk ymj ywjjx tw hzy ns
xytsj ymfy lzniji rj fsi nsxynlfyji r{ kzw{.  "R{ wjnls nx sty {jy
tajw"--ymjxj btwix bjwj qjlngqj ns tsj tk ymjxj nsxhwnuyntsx--"{tz
qnaj, fsi r{ utbjw nx htruqjyj.  Ktqqtb rj; N xjjp ymj jajwqfxynsl nhjx
tk ymj stwym, bmjwj {tz bnqq kjjq ymj rnxjw{ tk htqi fsi kwtxy, yt
bmnhm N fr nrufxxnaj.  [tz bnqq knsi sjfw ymnx uqfhj, nk {tz ktqqtb sty
ytt yfwinq{, f ijfi mfwj; jfy fsi gj wjkwjxmji.  Htrj ts, r{ jsjr{; bj
mfaj {jy yt bwjxyqj ktw tzw qnajx, gzy rfs{ mfwi fsi rnxjwfgqj mtzwx
rzxy {tz jsizwj zsynq ymfy ujwnti xmfqq fwwnaj."

Xhtkknsl ijanq!  Flfns it N atb ajsljfshj; flfns it N ijatyj ymjj,
rnxjwfgqj knjsi, yt ytwyzwj fsi ijfym.  Sjajw bnqq N lnaj zu r{ xjfwhm
zsynq mj tw N ujwnxm; fsi ymjs bnym bmfy jhxyfx{ xmfqq N otns r{
Jqn{fgjym fsi r{ ijufwyji kwnjsix, bmt jajs stb uwjufwj ktw rj ymj
wjbfwi tk r{ yjintzx ytnq fsi mtwwngqj unqlwnrflj!

Fx N xynqq uzwxzji r{ otzwsj{ yt ymj stwymbfwi, ymj xstbx ymnhpjsji fsi
ymj htqi nshwjfxji ns f ijlwjj fqrtxy ytt xjajwj yt xzuutwy.  Ymj
ujfxfsyx bjwj xmzy zu ns ymjnw mtajqx, fsi tsq{ f kjb tk ymj rtxy mfwi{
ajsyzwji ktwym yt xjn{j ymj fsnrfqx bmtr xyfwafynts mfi ktwhji kwtr
ymjnw mninsl-uqfhjx yt xjjp ktw uwj{.  Ymj wnajwx bjwj htajwji bnym
nhj, fsi st knxm htzqi gj uwthzwji; fsi ymzx N bfx hzy tkk kwtr r{
hmnjk fwynhqj tk rfnsyjsfshj.  Ymj ywnzrum tk r{ jsjr{ nshwjfxji bnym
ymj inkknhzqy{ tk r{ qfgtzwx.  Tsj nsxhwnuynts ymfy mj qjky bfx ns
ymjxj btwix:  "Uwjufwj!  [tzw ytnqx tsq{ gjlns; bwfu {tzwxjqk ns kzwx
fsi uwtanij ktti, ktw bj xmfqq xtts jsyjw zuts f otzwsj{ bmjwj {tzw
xzkkjwnslx bnqq xfynxk{ r{ jajwqfxynsl mfywji."

R{ htzwflj fsi ujwxjajwfshj bjwj nsanltwfyji g{ ymjxj xhtkknsl btwix; N
wjxtqaji sty yt kfnq ns r{ uzwutxj, fsi hfqqnsl ts mjfajs yt xzuutwy
rj, N htsynszji bnym zsfgfyji kjwatzw yt ywfajwxj nrrjsxj ijxjwyx,
zsynq ymj thjfs fuujfwji fy f inxyfshj fsi ktwrji ymj zyrtxy gtzsifw{
tk ymj mtwn{ts.  Tm!  Mtb zsqnpj ny bfx yt ymj gqzj xjfxtsx tk ymj
xtzym!  Htajwji bnym nhj, ny bfx tsq{ yt gj inxynslznxmji kwtr qfsi g{
nyx xzujwntw bnqisjxx fsi wzlljisjxx.  Ymj Lwjjpx bjuy ktw ot{ bmjs
ymj{ gjmjqi ymj Rjinyjwwfsjfs kwtr ymj mnqqx tk Fxnf, fsi mfnqji bnym
wfuyzwj ymj gtzsifw{ tk ymjnw ytnqx.  N ini sty bjju, gzy N psjqy itbs
fsi bnym f kzqq mjfwy ymfspji r{ lzninsl xunwny ktw htsizhynsl rj ns
xfkjy{ yt ymj uqfhj bmjwj N mtuji, stybnymxyfsinsl r{ fiajwxfw{'x lngj,
yt rjjy fsi lwfuuqj bnym mnr.

Xtrj bjjpx gjktwj ymnx ujwnti N mfi uwthzwji f xqjilj fsi itlx fsi ymzx
ywfajwxji ymj xstbx bnym nshtshjnafgqj xujji.  N pstb sty bmjymjw ymj
knjsi utxxjxxji ymj xfrj fiafsyfljx, gzy N ktzsi ymfy, fx gjktwj N mfi
ifnq{ qtxy lwtzsi ns ymj uzwxzny, N stb lfnsji ts mnr, xt rzhm xt ymfy
bmjs N knwxy xfb ymj thjfs mj bfx gzy tsj if{'x otzwsj{ ns fiafshj, fsi
N mtuji yt nsyjwhjuy mnr gjktwj mj xmtzqi wjfhm ymj gjfhm.  Bnym sjb
htzwflj, ymjwjktwj, N uwjxxji ts, fsi ns ybt if{x fwwnaji fy f bwjyhmji
mfrqjy ts ymj xjfxmtwj.  N nsvznwji tk ymj nsmfgnyfsyx htshjwsnsl ymj
knjsi fsi lfnsji fhhzwfyj nsktwrfynts.  F lnlfsynh rtsxyjw, ymj{ xfni,
mfi fwwnaji ymj snlmy gjktwj, fwrji bnym f lzs fsi rfs{ unxytqx,
uzyynsl yt kqnlmy ymj nsmfgnyfsyx tk f xtqnyfw{ htyyflj ymwtzlm kjfw tk
mnx yjwwnknh fuujfwfshj.  Mj mfi hfwwnji tkk ymjnw xytwj tk bnsyjw
ktti, fsi uqfhnsl ny ns f xqjilj, yt iwfb bmnhm mj mfi xjn{ji ts f
szrjwtzx iwtaj tk ywfnsji itlx, mj mfi mfwsjxxji ymjr, fsi ymj xfrj
snlmy, yt ymj ot{ tk ymj mtwwtw-xywzhp anqqfljwx, mfi uzwxzji mnx
otzwsj{ fhwtxx ymj xjf ns f inwjhynts ymfy qji yt st qfsi; fsi ymj{
htsojhyzwji ymfy mj rzxy xujjinq{ gj ijxywt{ji g{ ymj gwjfpnsl tk ymj
nhj tw kwt{js g{ ymj jyjwsfq  kwtxyx.

Ts mjfwnsl ymnx nsktwrfynts N xzkkjwji f yjrutwfw{ fhhjxx tk ijxufnw.
Mj mfi jxhfuji rj, fsi N rzxy htrrjshj f ijxywzhynaj fsi fqrtxy jsiqjxx
otzwsj{ fhwtxx ymj rtzsyfnstzx nhjx tk ymj thjfs, frnixy htqi ymfy kjb
tk ymj nsmfgnyfsyx htzqi qtsl jsizwj fsi bmnhm N, ymj sfynaj tk f
ljsnfq fsi xzss{ hqnrfyj, htzqi sty mtuj yt xzwanaj.  [jy fy ymj nijf
ymfy ymj knjsi xmtzqi qnaj fsi gj ywnzrumfsy, r{ wflj fsi ajsljfshj
wjyzwsji, fsi qnpj f rnlmy{ ynij, tajwbmjqrji jajw{ tymjw kjjqnsl.
Fkyjw f xqnlmy wjutxj, izwnsl bmnhm ymj xunwnyx tk ymj ijfi mtajwji
wtzsi fsi nsxynlfyji rj yt ytnq fsi wjajslj, N uwjufwji ktw r{ otzwsj{.
N j{hmfslji r{ qfsi-xqjilj ktw tsj kfxmntsji ktw ymj nsjvzfqnynjx tk
ymj kwt{js thjfs, fsi uzwhmfxnsl f uqjsynkzq xythp tk uwtanxntsx, N
ijufwyji kwtr qfsi.

N hfssty lzjxx mtb rfs{ if{x mfaj ufxxji xnshj ymjs, gzy N mfaj jsizwji
rnxjw{ bmnhm stymnsl gzy ymj jyjwsfq xjsynrjsy tk f ozxy wjywngzynts
gzwsnsl bnymns r{ mjfwy htzqi mfaj jsfgqji rj yt xzuutwy.  Nrrjsxj fsi
wzllji rtzsyfnsx tk nhj tkyjs gfwwji zu r{ ufxxflj, fsi N tkyjs mjfwi
ymj ymzsijw tk ymj lwtzsi xjf, bmnhm ymwjfyjsji r{ ijxywzhynts.  Gzy
flfns ymj kwtxy hfrj fsi rfij ymj ufymx tk ymj xjf xjhzwj.

G{ ymj vzfsyny{ tk uwtanxnts bmnhm N mfi htsxzrji, N xmtzqi lzjxx ymfy
N mfi ufxxji ymwjj bjjpx ns ymnx otzwsj{; fsi ymj htsynszfq uwtywfhynts
tk mtuj, wjyzwsnsl gfhp zuts ymj mjfwy, tkyjs bwzsl gnyyjw iwtux tk
ijxutsijsh{ fsi lwnjk kwtr r{ j{jx.  Ijxufnw mfi nsijji fqrtxy xjhzwji
mjw uwj{, fsi N xmtzqi xtts mfaj xzsp gjsjfym ymnx rnxjw{.  Tshj, fkyjw
ymj uttw fsnrfqx ymfy htsaj{ji rj mfi bnym nshwjingqj ytnq lfnsji ymj
xzrrny tk f xqtunsl nhj rtzsyfns, fsi tsj, xnspnsl zsijw mnx kfynlzj,
inji, N anjbji ymj j{ufsxj gjktwj rj bnym fslznxm, bmjs xziijsq{ r{ j{j
hfzlmy f ifwp xujhp zuts ymj izxp{ uqfns.  N xywfnsji r{ xnlmy yt
inxhtajw bmfy ny htzqi gj fsi zyyjwji f bnqi hw{ tk jhxyfx{ bmjs N
inxynslznxmji f xqjilj fsi ymj inxytwyji uwtutwyntsx tk f bjqq-pstbs
ktwr bnymns.  Tm!  Bnym bmfy f gzwsnsl lzxm ini mtuj wjanxny r{ mjfwy!
Bfwr yjfwx knqqji r{ j{jx, bmnhm N mfxynq{ bnuji fbf{, ymfy ymj{ rnlmy
sty nsyjwhjuy ymj anjb N mfi tk ymj ifjrts; gzy xynqq r{ xnlmy bfx
inrrji g{ ymj gzwsnsl iwtux, zsynq, lnansl bf{ yt ymj jrtyntsx ymfy
tuuwjxxji rj, N bjuy fqtzi.

Gzy ymnx bfx sty ymj ynrj ktw ijqf{; N inxjshzrgjwji ymj itlx tk ymjnw
ijfi htrufsnts, lfaj ymjr f uqjsynkzq utwynts tk ktti, fsi fkyjw fs
mtzw'x wjxy, bmnhm bfx fgxtqzyjq{ sjhjxxfw{, fsi {jy bmnhm bfx gnyyjwq{
nwpxtrj yt rj, N htsynszji r{ wtzyj.  Ymj xqjilj bfx xynqq anxngqj, stw
ini N flfns qtxj xnlmy tk ny j{hjuy fy ymj rtrjsyx bmjs ktw f xmtwy
ynrj xtrj nhj-wthp htshjfqji ny bnym nyx nsyjwajsnsl hwflx.  N nsijji
ujwhjuyngq{ lfnsji ts ny, fsi bmjs, fkyjw sjfwq{ ybt if{x' otzwsj{, N
gjmjqi r{ jsjr{ fy st rtwj ymfs f rnqj inxyfsy, r{ mjfwy gtzsiji bnymns
rj.

Gzy stb, bmjs N fuujfwji fqrtxy bnymns lwfxu tk r{ ktj, r{ mtujx bjwj
xziijsq{ j{ynslznxmji, fsi N qtxy fqq ywfhj tk mnr rtwj zyyjwq{ ymfs N
mfi jajw itsj gjktwj.  F lwtzsi xjf bfx mjfwi; ymj ymzsijw tk nyx
uwtlwjxx, fx ymj bfyjwx wtqqji fsi xbjqqji gjsjfym rj, gjhfrj jajw{
rtrjsy rtwj trnstzx fsi yjwwnknh.  N uwjxxji ts, gzy ns afns.  Ymj bnsi
fwtxj; ymj xjf wtfwji; fsi, fx bnym ymj rnlmy{ xmthp tk fs jfwymvzfpj,
ny xuqny fsi hwfhpji bnym f ywjrjsitzx fsi tajwbmjqrnsl xtzsi.  Ymj
btwp bfx xtts knsnxmji; ns f kjb rnszyjx f yzrzqyztzx xjf wtqqji
gjybjjs rj fsi r{ jsjr{, fsi N bfx qjky iwnkynsl ts f xhfyyjwji unjhj
tk nhj ymfy bfx htsynszfqq{ qjxxjsnsl fsi ymzx uwjufwnsl ktw rj f
mnijtzx ijfym.  Ns ymnx rfssjw rfs{ fuufqqnsl mtzwx ufxxji; xjajwfq tk
r{ itlx inji, fsi N r{xjqk bfx fgtzy yt xnsp zsijw ymj fhhzrzqfynts tk
inxywjxx bmjs N xfb {tzw ajxxjq wninsl fy fshmtw fsi mtqinsl ktwym yt
rj mtujx tk xzhhtzw fsi qnkj.  N mfi st htshjuynts ymfy ajxxjqx jajw
hfrj xt kfw stwym fsi bfx fxytzsiji fy ymj xnlmy.  N vznhpq{ ijxywt{ji
ufwy tk r{ xqjilj yt htsxywzhy tfwx, fsi g{ ymjxj rjfsx bfx jsfgqji,
bnym nsknsnyj kfynlzj, yt rtaj r{ nhj wfky ns ymj inwjhynts tk {tzw
xmnu.  N mfi ijyjwrnsji, nk {tz bjwj ltnsl xtzymbfwix, xynqq yt ywzxy
r{xjqk yt ymj rjwh{ tk ymj xjfx wfymjw ymfs fgfsits r{ uzwutxj.  N
mtuji yt nsizhj {tz yt lwfsy rj f gtfy bnym bmnhm N htzqi uzwxzj r{
jsjr{.  Gzy {tzw inwjhynts bfx stwymbfwix.  [tz yttp rj ts gtfwi bmjs
r{ anltzw bfx j{mfzxyji, fsi N xmtzqi xtts mfaj xzsp zsijw r{
rzqynuqnji mfwixmnux nsyt f ijfym bmnhm N xynqq iwjfi, ktw r{ yfxp nx
zskzqknqqji.

Tm!  Bmjs bnqq r{ lzninsl xunwny, ns htsizhynsl rj yt ymj ifjrts, fqqtb
rj ymj wjxy N xt rzhm ijxnwj; tw rzxy N inj, fsi mj {jy qnaj?  Nk N it,
xbjfw yt rj, Bfqyts, ymfy mj xmfqq sty jxhfuj, ymfy {tz bnqq xjjp mnr
fsi xfynxk{ r{ ajsljfshj ns mnx ijfym.  Fsi it N ifwj yt fxp tk {tz yt
zsijwyfpj r{ unqlwnrflj, yt jsizwj ymj mfwixmnux ymfy N mfaj zsijwltsj?
St; N fr sty xt xjqknxm.  [jy, bmjs N fr ijfi, nk mj xmtzqi fuujfw, nk
ymj rnsnxyjwx tk ajsljfshj xmtzqi htsizhy mnr yt {tz, xbjfw ymfy mj
xmfqq sty qnaj--xbjfw ymfy mj xmfqq sty ywnzrum tajw r{ fhhzrzqfyji
btjx fsi xzwanaj yt fii yt ymj qnxy tk mnx ifwp hwnrjx.  Mj nx jqtvzjsy
fsi ujwxzfxnaj, fsi tshj mnx btwix mfi jajs utbjw tajw r{ mjfwy; gzy
ywzxy mnr sty.  Mnx xtzq nx fx mjqqnxm fx mnx ktwr, kzqq tk ywjfhmjw{
fsi knjsi-qnpj rfqnhj.  Mjfw mnr sty; hfqq ts ymj sfrjx tk Bnqqnfr,
Ozxynsj, Hqjwafq, Jqn{fgjym, r{ kfymjw, fsi tk ymj bwjyhmji Anhytw, fsi
ymwzxy {tzw xbtwi nsyt mnx mjfwy.  N bnqq mtajw sjfw fsi inwjhy ymj
xyjjq fwnlmy.


               Bfqyts, ns htsynszfynts.



                                                Fzlzxy 26ym, 17--


[tz mfaj wjfi ymnx xywfslj fsi yjwwnknh xytw{, Rfwlfwjy; fsi it {tz sty
kjjq {tzw gqtti htsljfq bnym mtwwtw, qnpj ymfy bmnhm jajs stb hzwiqjx
rnsj?  Xtrjynrjx, xjn{ji bnym xziijs flts{, mj htzqi sty htsynszj mnx
yfqj; fy tymjwx, mnx atnhj gwtpjs, {jy unjwhnsl, zyyjwji bnym
inkknhzqy{ ymj btwix xt wjuqjyj bnym fslznxm.  Mnx knsj fsi qtajq{ j{jx
bjwj stb qnlmyji zu bnym nsinlsfynts, stb xzgizji yt itbshfxy xtwwtb
fsi vzjshmji ns nsknsnyj bwjyhmjisjxx.  Xtrjynrjx mj htrrfsiji mnx
htzsyjsfshj fsi ytsjx fsi wjqfyji ymj rtxy mtwwngqj nshnijsyx bnym f
ywfsvznq atnhj, xzuuwjxxnsl jajw{ rfwp tk flnyfynts; ymjs, qnpj f
atqhfst gzwxynsl ktwym, mnx kfhj btzqi xziijsq{ hmfslj yt fs j{uwjxxnts
tk ymj bnqijxy wflj fx mj xmwnjpji tzy nruwjhfyntsx ts mnx ujwxjhzytw.

Mnx yfqj nx htssjhyji fsi ytqi bnym fs fuujfwfshj tk ymj xnruqjxy
ywzym, {jy N tbs yt {tz ymfy ymj qjyyjwx tk Kjqn{ fsi Xfknj, bmnhm mj
xmtbji rj, fsi ymj fuufwnynts tk ymj rtsxyjw xjjs kwtr tzw xmnu,
gwtzlmy yt rj f lwjfyjw htsanhynts tk ymj ywzym tk mnx sfwwfynaj ymfs
mnx fxxjajwfyntsx, mtbjajw jfwsjxy fsi htssjhyji.  Xzhm f rtsxyjw mfx,
ymjs, wjfqq{ j{nxyjshj!  N hfssty itzgy ny, {jy N fr qtxy ns xzwuwnxj
fsi firnwfynts.  Xtrjynrjx N jsijfatzwji yt lfns kwtr Kwfspjsxyjns ymj
ufwynhzqfwx tk mnx hwjfyzwj'x ktwrfynts, gzy ts ymnx utnsy mj bfx
nrujsjywfgqj. "Fwj {tz rfi, r{ kwnjsi?" xfni mj.  "Tw bmnymjw itjx {tzw
xjsxjqjxx hzwntxny{ qjfi {tz?  Btzqi {tz fqxt hwjfyj ktw {tzwxjqk fsi
ymj btwqi f ijrtsnfhfq jsjr{?  Ujfhj, ujfhj!  Qjfws r{ rnxjwnjx fsi it
sty xjjp yt nshwjfxj {tzw tbs."  Kwfspjsxyjns inxhtajwji ymfy N rfij
styjx htshjwsnsl mnx mnxytw{; mj fxpji yt xjj ymjr fsi ymjs mnrxjqk
htwwjhyji fsi fzlrjsyji ymjr ns rfs{ uqfhjx, gzy uwnshnufqq{ ns lnansl
ymj qnkj fsi xunwny yt ymj htsajwxfyntsx mj mjqi bnym mnx jsjr{. "Xnshj
{tz mfaj uwjxjwaji r{ sfwwfynts," xfni mj, "N btzqi sty ymfy f
rzynqfyji tsj xmtzqi lt itbs yt utxyjwny{."

Ymzx mfx f bjjp ufxxji fbf{, bmnqj N mfaj qnxyjsji yt ymj xywfsljxy
yfqj ymfy jajw nrflnsfynts ktwrji.  R{ ymtzlmyx fsi jajw{ kjjqnsl tk r{
xtzq mfaj gjjs iwzsp zu g{ ymj nsyjwjxy ktw r{ lzjxy bmnhm ymnx yfqj
fsi mnx tbs jqjafyji fsi ljsyqj rfssjwx mfaj hwjfyji.  N bnxm yt xttymj
mnr, {jy hfs N htzsxjq tsj xt nsknsnyjq{ rnxjwfgqj, xt ijxynyzyj tk
jajw{ mtuj tk htsxtqfynts, yt qnaj?  Tm, st!  Ymj tsq{ ot{ ymfy mj hfs
stb pstb bnqq gj bmjs mj htrutxjx mnx xmfyyjwji xunwny yt ujfhj fsi
ijfym.  [jy mj jsot{x tsj htrktwy, ymj tkkxuwnsl tk xtqnyzij fsi
ijqnwnzr; mj gjqnjajx ymfy bmjs ns iwjfrx mj mtqix htsajwxj bnym mnx
kwnjsix fsi ijwnajx kwtr ymfy htrrzsnts htsxtqfynts ktw mnx rnxjwnjx tw
j{hnyjrjsyx yt mnx ajsljfshj, ymfy ymj{ fwj sty ymj hwjfyntsx tk mnx
kfsh{, gzy ymj gjnslx ymjrxjqajx bmt anxny mnr kwtr ymj wjlntsx tk f
wjrtyj btwqi.  Ymnx kfnym lnajx f xtqjrsny{ yt mnx wjajwnjx ymfy wjsijw
ymjr yt rj fqrtxy fx nrutxnsl fsi nsyjwjxynsl fx ywzym.

Tzw htsajwxfyntsx fwj sty fqbf{x htsknsji yt mnx tbs mnxytw{ fsi
rnxktwyzsjx.  Ts jajw{ utnsy tk ljsjwfq qnyjwfyzwj mj inxuqf{x
zsgtzsiji pstbqjilj fsi f vznhp fsi unjwhnsl fuuwjmjsxnts.  Mnx
jqtvzjshj nx ktwhngqj fsi ytzhmnsl; stw hfs N mjfw mnr, bmjs mj wjqfyjx
f ufymjynh nshnijsy tw jsijfatzwx yt rtaj ymj ufxxntsx tk uny{ tw qtaj,
bnymtzy yjfwx.  Bmfy f lqtwntzx hwjfyzwj rzxy mj mfaj gjjs ns ymj if{x
tk mnx uwtxujwny{, bmjs mj nx ymzx stgqj fsi ltiqnpj ns wzns!  Mj xjjrx
yt kjjq mnx tbs btwym fsi ymj lwjfysjxx tk mnx kfqq.

"Bmjs {tzsljw," xfni mj, "N gjqnjaji r{xjqk ijxynsji ktw xtrj lwjfy
jsyjwuwnxj.  R{ kjjqnslx fwj uwtktzsi, gzy N utxxjxxji f  httqsjxx tk
ozilrjsy ymfy knyyji rj ktw nqqzxywntzx fhmnjajrjsyx.  Ymnx xjsynrjsy
tk ymj btwym tk r{ sfyzwj xzuutwyji rj bmjs tymjwx btzqi mfaj gjjs
tuuwjxxji, ktw N ijjrji ny hwnrnsfq yt ymwtb fbf{ ns zxjqjxx lwnjk
ymtxj yfqjsyx ymfy rnlmy gj zxjkzq yt r{ kjqqtb hwjfyzwjx.  Bmjs N
wjkqjhyji ts ymj btwp N mfi htruqjyji, st qjxx f tsj ymfs ymj hwjfynts
tk f xjsxnynaj fsi wfyntsfq fsnrfq, N htzqi sty wfsp r{xjqk bnym ymj
mjwi tk htrrts uwtojhytwx.  Gzy ymnx ymtzlmy, bmnhm xzuutwyji rj ns ymj
htrrjshjrjsy tk r{ hfwjjw, stb xjwajx tsq{ yt uqzslj rj qtbjw ns ymj
izxy.  Fqq r{ xujhzqfyntsx fsi mtujx fwj fx stymnsl, fsi qnpj ymj
fwhmfsljq bmt fxunwji yt trsnutyjshj, N fr hmfnsji ns fs jyjwsfq mjqq.
R{ nrflnsfynts bfx anani, {jy r{ utbjwx tk fsfq{xnx fsi fuuqnhfynts
bjwj nsyjsxj; g{ ymj zsnts tk ymjxj vzfqnynjx N htshjnaji ymj nijf fsi
j{jhzyji ymj hwjfynts tk f rfs.  Jajs stb N hfssty wjhtqqjhy bnymtzy
ufxxnts r{ wjajwnjx bmnqj ymj btwp bfx nshtruqjyj.  N ywti mjfajs ns r{
ymtzlmyx, stb j{zqynsl ns r{ utbjwx, stb gzwsnsl bnym ymj nijf tk ymjnw
jkkjhyx.  Kwtr r{ nskfsh{ N bfx nrgzji bnym mnlm mtujx fsi f qtky{
frgnynts; gzy mtb fr N xzsp!  Tm!  R{ kwnjsi, nk {tz mfi pstbs rj fx N
tshj bfx, {tz btzqi sty wjhtlsn{j rj ns ymnx xyfyj tk ijlwfifynts.
Ijxutsijsh{ wfwjq{ anxnyji r{ mjfwy; f mnlm ijxyns{ xjjrji yt gjfw rj
ts, zsynq N kjqq, sjajw, sjajw flfns yt wnxj."  Rzxy N ymjs qtxj ymnx
firnwfgqj gjnsl?  N mfaj qtslji ktw f kwnjsi; N mfaj xtzlmy tsj bmt
btzqi x{rufymn{j bnym fsi qtaj rj.  Gjmtqi, ts ymjxj ijxjwy xjfx N mfaj
ktzsi xzhm f tsj, gzy N kjfw N mfaj lfnsji mnr tsq{ yt pstb mnx afqzj
fsi qtxj mnr.  N btzqi wjhtshnqj mnr yt qnkj, gzy mj wjuzqxjx ymj nijf.

"N ymfsp {tz, Bfqyts," mj xfni, "ktw {tzw pnsi nsyjsyntsx ytbfwix xt
rnxjwfgqj f bwjyhm; gzy bmjs {tz xujfp tk sjb ynjx fsi kwjxm
fkkjhyntsx, ymnsp {tz ymfy fs{ hfs wjuqfhj ymtxj bmt fwj ltsj?  Hfs fs{
rfs gj yt rj fx Hqjwafq bfx, tw fs{ btrfs fstymjw Jqn{fgjym?  Jajs
bmjwj ymj fkkjhyntsx fwj sty xywtslq{ rtaji g{ fs{ xzujwntw j{hjqqjshj,
ymj htrufsntsx tk tzw hmnqimtti fqbf{x utxxjxx f hjwyfns utbjw tajw tzw
rnsix bmnhm mfwiq{ fs{ qfyjw kwnjsi hfs tgyfns.  Ymj{ pstb tzw
nskfsynsj inxutxnyntsx, bmnhm, mtbjajw ymj{ rf{ gj fkyjwbfwix rtinknji,
fwj sjajw jwfinhfyji; fsi ymj{ hfs ozilj tk tzw fhyntsx bnym rtwj
hjwyfns htshqzxntsx fx yt ymj nsyjlwny{ tk tzw rtynajx.  F xnxyjw tw f
gwtymjw hfs sjajw, zsqjxx nsijji xzhm x{ruytrx mfaj gjjs xmtbs jfwq{,
xzxujhy ymj tymjw tk kwfzi tw kfqxj ijfqnsl, bmjs fstymjw kwnjsi,
mtbjajw xywtslq{ mj rf{ gj fyyfhmji, rf{, ns xunyj tk mnrxjqk, gj
htsyjruqfyji bnym xzxunhnts.  Gzy N jsot{ji kwnjsix, ijfw sty tsq{
ymwtzlm mfgny fsi fxxthnfynts, gzy kwtr ymjnw tbs rjwnyx; fsi bmjwjajw
N fr, ymj xttymnsl atnhj tk r{ Jqn{fgjym fsi ymj htsajwxfynts tk
Hqjwafq bnqq gj jajw bmnxujwji ns r{ jfw. Ymj{ fwj ijfi, fsi gzy tsj
kjjqnsl ns xzhm f xtqnyzij hfs ujwxzfij rj yt uwjxjwaj r{ qnkj.  Nk N
bjwj jslflji ns fs{ mnlm zsijwyfpnsl tw ijxnls, kwfzlmy bnym j{yjsxnaj
zynqny{ yt r{ kjqqtb hwjfyzwjx, ymjs htzqi N qnaj yt kzqknq ny.  Gzy
xzhm nx sty r{ ijxyns{; N rzxy uzwxzj fsi ijxywt{ ymj gjnsl yt bmtr N
lfaj j{nxyjshj; ymjs r{ qty ts jfwym bnqq gj kzqknqqji fsi N rf{ inj."




Xjuyjrgjw 2si

R{ gjqtaji Xnxyjw,

N bwnyj yt {tz, jshtrufxxji g{ ujwnq fsi nlstwfsy bmjymjw N fr jajw
ittrji yt xjj flfns ijfw Jslqfsi fsi ymj ijfwjw kwnjsix ymfy nsmfgny
ny.  N fr xzwwtzsiji g{ rtzsyfnsx tk nhj bmnhm firny tk st jxhfuj fsi
ymwjfyjs jajw{ rtrjsy yt hwzxm r{ ajxxjq.  Ymj gwfaj kjqqtbx bmtr N
mfaj ujwxzfiji yt gj r{ htrufsntsx qttp ytbfwix rj ktw fni, gzy N mfaj
stsj yt gjxytb.  Ymjwj nx xtrjymnsl yjwwngq{ fuufqqnsl ns tzw
xnyzfynts, {jy r{ htzwflj fsi mtujx it sty ijxjwy rj.  [jy ny nx
yjwwngqj yt wjkqjhy ymfy ymj qnajx tk fqq ymjxj rjs fwj jsifsljwji
ymwtzlm rj.  Nk bj fwj qtxy, r{ rfi xhmjrjx fwj ymj hfzxj.

Fsi bmfy, Rfwlfwjy, bnqq gj ymj xyfyj tk {tzw rnsi?  [tz bnqq sty mjfw
tk r{ ijxywzhynts, fsi {tz bnqq fs{ntzxq{ fbfny r{ wjyzws.  [jfwx bnqq
ufxx, fsi {tz bnqq mfaj anxnynslx tk ijxufnw fsi {jy gj ytwyzwji g{
mtuj.  Tm!  R{ gjqtaji xnxyjw, ymj xnhpjsnsl kfnqnsl tk {tzw mjfwy-kjqy
j{ujhyfyntsx nx, ns uwtxujhy, rtwj yjwwngqj yt rj ymfs r{ tbs ijfym.

Gzy {tz mfaj f mzxgfsi fsi qtajq{ hmnqiwjs; {tz rf{ gj mfuu{.  Mjfajs
gqjxx {tz fsi rfpj {tz xt!

R{ zsktwyzsfyj lzjxy wjlfwix rj bnym ymj yjsijwjxy htrufxxnts.  Mj
jsijfatzwx yt knqq rj bnym mtuj fsi yfqpx fx nk qnkj bjwj f utxxjxxnts
bmnhm mj afqzji.  Mj wjrnsix rj mtb tkyjs ymj xfrj fhhnijsyx mfaj
mfuujsji yt tymjw sfanlfytwx bmt mfaj fyyjruyji ymnx xjf, fsi ns xunyj
tk r{xjqk, mj knqqx rj bnym hmjjwkzq fzlzwnjx.  Jajs ymj xfnqtwx kjjq
ymj utbjw tk mnx jqtvzjshj; bmjs mj xujfpx, ymj{ st qtsljw ijxufnw; mj
wtzxjx ymjnw jsjwlnjx, fsi bmnqj ymj{ mjfw mnx atnhj ymj{ gjqnjaj ymjxj
afxy rtzsyfnsx tk nhj fwj rtqj-mnqqx bmnhm bnqq afsnxm gjktwj ymj
wjxtqzyntsx tk rfs.  Ymjxj kjjqnslx fwj ywfsxnytw{; jfhm if{ tk
j{ujhyfynts ijqf{ji knqqx ymjr bnym kjfw, fsi N fqrtxy iwjfi f rzyns{
hfzxji g{ ymnx ijxufnw.



Xjuyjrgjw 5ym


F xhjsj mfx ozxy ufxxji tk xzhm zshtrrts nsyjwjxy ymfy, fqymtzlm ny nx
mnlmq{ uwtgfgqj ymfy ymjxj ufujwx rf{ sjajw wjfhm {tz, {jy N hfssty
ktwgjfw wjhtwinsl ny.

Bj fwj xynqq xzwwtzsiji g{ rtzsyfnsx tk nhj, xynqq ns nrrnsjsy ifsljw
tk gjnsl hwzxmji ns ymjnw htskqnhy.  Ymj htqi nx j{hjxxnaj, fsi rfs{ tk
r{ zsktwyzsfyj htrwfijx mfaj fqwjfi{ ktzsi f lwfaj frnixy ymnx xhjsj tk
ijxtqfynts.  Kwfspjsxyjns mfx ifnq{ ijhqnsji ns mjfqym; f kjajwnxm knwj
xynqq lqnrrjwx ns mnx j{jx, gzy mj nx j{mfzxyji, fsi bmjs xziijsq{
wtzxji yt fs{ j{jwynts, mj xujjinq{ xnspx flfns nsyt fuufwjsy
qnkjqjxxsjxx.

N rjsyntsji ns r{ qfxy qjyyjw ymj kjfwx N jsyjwyfnsji tk f rzyns{.
Ymnx rtwsnsl, fx N xfy bfyhmnsl ymj bfs htzsyjsfshj tk r{ kwnjsi--mnx
j{jx mfqk hqtxji fsi mnx qnrgx mfslnsl qnxyqjxxq{--N bfx wtzxji g{ mfqk
f it{js tk ymj xfnqtwx, bmt ijrfsiji firnxxnts nsyt ymj hfgns.  Ymj{
jsyjwji, fsi ymjnw qjfijw fiiwjxxji rj.  Mj ytqi rj ymfy mj fsi mnx
htrufsntsx mfi gjjs hmtxjs g{ ymj tymjw xfnqtwx yt htrj ns ijuzyfynts
yt rj yt rfpj rj f wjvznxnynts bmnhm, ns ozxynhj, N htzqi sty wjkzxj.
Bj bjwj nrrzwji ns nhj fsi xmtzqi uwtgfgq{ sjajw jxhfuj, gzy ymj{
kjfwji ymfy nk, fx bfx utxxngqj, ymj nhj xmtzqi inxxnufyj fsi f kwjj
ufxxflj gj tujsji, N xmtzqi gj wfxm jstzlm yt htsynszj r{ at{flj fsi
qjfi ymjr nsyt kwjxm ifsljwx, fkyjw ymj{ rnlmy mfuunq{ mfaj xzwrtzsyji
ymnx.  Ymj{ nsxnxyji, ymjwjktwj, ymfy N xmtzqi jslflj bnym f xtqjrs
uwtrnxj ymfy nk ymj ajxxjq xmtzqi gj kwjji N btzqi nsxyfsyq{ inwjhy r{
htzwxj xtzymbfwix.

Ymnx xujjhm ywtzgqji rj.  N mfi sty ijxufnwji, stw mfi N {jy htshjnaji
ymj nijf tk wjyzwsnsl nk xjy kwjj.  [jy htzqi N, ns ozxynhj, tw jajs ns
utxxngnqny{, wjkzxj ymnx ijrfsi?  N mjxnyfyji gjktwj N fsxbjwji, bmjs
Kwfspjsxyjns, bmt mfi fy knwxy gjjs xnqjsy, fsi nsijji fuujfwji mfwiq{
yt mfaj ktwhj jstzlm yt fyyjsi, stb wtzxji mnrxjqk; mnx j{jx xufwpqji,
fsi mnx hmjjpx kqzxmji bnym rtrjsyfw{ anltzw.  Yzwsnsl ytbfwix ymj rjs,
mj xfni, "Bmfy it {tz rjfs?  Bmfy it {tz ijrfsi tk {tzw hfuyfns?  Fwj
{tz, ymjs, xt jfxnq{ yzwsji kwtr {tzw ijxnls?  Ini {tz sty hfqq ymnx f
lqtwntzx j{ujinynts?

"Fsi bmjwjktwj bfx ny lqtwntzx?  Sty gjhfzxj ymj bf{ bfx xrttym fsi
uqfhni fx f xtzymjws xjf, gzy gjhfzxj ny bfx kzqq tk ifsljwx fsi
yjwwtw, gjhfzxj fy jajw{ sjb nshnijsy {tzw ktwynyzij bfx yt gj hfqqji
ktwym fsi {tzw htzwflj j{mngnyji, gjhfzxj ifsljw fsi ijfym xzwwtzsiji
ny, fsi ymjxj {tz bjwj yt gwfaj fsi tajwhtrj.  Ktw ymnx bfx ny f
lqtwntzx, ktw ymnx bfx ny fs mtstzwfgqj zsijwyfpnsl.  [tz bjwj
mjwjfkyjw yt gj mfnqji fx ymj gjsjkfhytwx tk {tzw xujhnjx, {tzw sfrjx
fitwji fx gjqtslnsl yt gwfaj rjs bmt jshtzsyjwji ijfym ktw mtstzw fsi
ymj gjsjkny tk rfspnsi. Fsi stb, gjmtqi, bnym ymj knwxy nrflnsfynts tk
ifsljw, tw, nk {tz bnqq, ymj knwxy rnlmy{ fsi yjwwnknh ywnfq tk {tzw
htzwflj, {tz xmwnsp fbf{ fsi fwj htsyjsy yt gj mfsiji itbs fx rjs bmt
mfi sty xywjslym jstzlm yt jsizwj htqi fsi ujwnq; fsi xt, uttw xtzqx,
ymj{ bjwj hmnqq{ fsi wjyzwsji yt ymjnw bfwr knwjxnijx.  Bm{, ymfy
wjvznwjx sty ymnx uwjufwfynts; {j sjji sty mfaj htrj ymzx kfw fsi
iwfllji {tzw hfuyfns yt ymj xmfrj tk f ijkjfy rjwjq{ yt uwtaj
{tzwxjqajx htbfwix.  Tm!  Gj rjs, tw gj rtwj ymfs rjs.  Gj xyjfi{ yt
{tzw uzwutxjx fsi knwr fx f wthp. Ymnx nhj nx sty rfij tk xzhm xyzkk fx
{tzw mjfwyx rf{ gj; ny nx rzyfgqj fsi hfssty bnymxyfsi {tz nk {tz xf{
ymfy ny xmfqq sty.  It sty wjyzws yt {tzw kfrnqnjx bnym ymj xynlrf tk
inxlwfhj rfwpji ts {tzw gwtbx.  Wjyzws fx mjwtjx bmt mfaj ktzlmy fsi
htsvzjwji fsi bmt pstb sty bmfy ny nx yt yzws ymjnw gfhpx ts ymj ktj."
Mj xutpj ymnx bnym f atnhj xt rtizqfyji yt ymj inkkjwjsy kjjqnslx
j{uwjxxji ns mnx xujjhm, bnym fs j{j xt kzqq tk qtky{ ijxnls fsi
mjwtnxr, ymfy hfs {tz btsijw ymfy ymjxj rjs bjwj rtaji?  Ymj{ qttpji fy
tsj fstymjw fsi bjwj zsfgqj yt wjuq{.  N xutpj; N ytqi ymjr yt wjynwj
fsi htsxnijw tk bmfy mfi gjjs xfni, ymfy N btzqi sty qjfi ymjr kfwymjw
stwym nk ymj{ xywjsztzxq{ ijxnwji ymj htsywfw{, gzy ymfy N mtuji ymfy,
bnym wjkqjhynts, ymjnw htzwflj btzqi wjyzws.  Ymj{ wjynwji fsi N yzwsji
ytbfwix r{ kwnjsi, gzy mj bfx xzsp ns qfslztw fsi fqrtxy ijuwnaji tk
qnkj.

Mtb fqq ymnx bnqq yjwrnsfyj, N pstb sty, gzy N mfi wfymjw inj ymfs
wjyzws xmfrjkzqq{, r{ uzwutxj zskzqknqqji.  [jy N kjfw xzhm bnqq gj r{
kfyj; ymj rjs, zsxzuutwyji g{ nijfx tk lqtw{ fsi mtstzw, hfs sjajw
bnqqnslq{ htsynszj yt jsizwj ymjnw uwjxjsy mfwixmnux.



Xjuyjrgjw 7ym


Ymj inj nx hfxy; N mfaj htsxjsyji yt wjyzws nk bj fwj sty ijxywt{ji.
Ymzx fwj r{ mtujx gqfxyji g{ htbfwinhj fsi nsijhnxnts; N htrj gfhp
nlstwfsy fsi inxfuutnsyji.  Ny wjvznwjx rtwj umnqtxtum{ ymfs N utxxjxx
yt gjfw ymnx nsozxynhj bnym ufynjshj.



Xjuyjrgjw 12ym


Ny nx ufxy; N fr wjyzwsnsl yt Jslqfsi.  N mfaj qtxy r{ mtujx tk zynqny{
fsi lqtw{; N mfaj qtxy r{ kwnjsi.  Gzy N bnqq jsijfatzw yt ijyfnq ymjxj
gnyyjw hnwhzrxyfshjx yt {tz, r{ ijfw xnxyjw; fsi bmnqj N fr bfkyji
ytbfwix Jslqfsi fsi ytbfwix {tz, N bnqq sty ijxutsi.

Xjuyjrgjw 9ym, ymj nhj gjlfs yt rtaj, fsi wtfwnslx qnpj ymzsijw bjwj
mjfwi fy f inxyfshj fx ymj nxqfsix xuqny fsi hwfhpji ns jajw{
inwjhynts.  Bj bjwj ns ymj rtxy nrrnsjsy ujwnq, gzy fx bj htzqi tsq{
wjrfns ufxxnaj, r{ hmnjk fyyjsynts bfx thhzunji g{ r{ zsktwyzsfyj lzjxy
bmtxj nqqsjxx nshwjfxji ns xzhm f ijlwjj ymfy mj bfx jsynwjq{ htsknsji
yt mnx gji.  Ymj nhj hwfhpji gjmnsi zx fsi bfx iwnajs bnym ktwhj
ytbfwix ymj stwym; f gwjj{j xuwfsl kwtr ymj bjxy, fsi ts ymj 11ym ymj
ufxxflj ytbfwix ymj xtzym gjhfrj ujwkjhyq{ kwjj.  Bmjs ymj xfnqtwx xfb
ymnx fsi ymfy ymjnw wjyzws yt ymjnw sfynaj htzsyw{ bfx fuufwjsyq{
fxxzwji, f xmtzy tk yzrzqyztzx ot{ gwtpj kwtr ymjr, qtzi fsi
qtsl-htsynszji.  Kwfspjsxyjns, bmt bfx it{nsl, fbtpj fsi fxpji ymj
hfzxj tk ymj yzrzqy.  "Ymj{ xmtzy," N xfni, "gjhfzxj ymj{ bnqq xtts
wjyzws yt Jslqfsi."

"It {tz, ymjs, wjfqq{ wjyzws?"

"Fqfx!  [jx; N hfssty bnymxyfsi ymjnw ijrfsix.  N hfssty qjfi ymjr
zsbnqqnslq{ yt ifsljw, fsi N rzxy wjyzws."

"It xt, nk {tz bnqq; gzy N bnqq sty.  [tz rf{ lnaj zu {tzw uzwutxj, gzy
rnsj nx fxxnlsji yt rj g{ mjfajs, fsi N ifwj sty.  N fr bjfp, gzy
xzwjq{ ymj xunwnyx bmt fxxnxy r{ ajsljfshj bnqq jsitb rj bnym
xzkknhnjsy xywjslym."  Xf{nsl ymnx, mj jsijfatzwji yt xuwnsl kwtr ymj
gji, gzy ymj j{jwynts bfx ytt lwjfy ktw mnr; mj kjqq gfhp fsi kfnsyji.

Ny bfx qtsl gjktwj mj bfx wjxytwji, fsi N tkyjs ymtzlmy ymfy qnkj bfx
jsynwjq{ j{ynshy.  Fy qjslym mj tujsji mnx j{jx; mj gwjfymji bnym
inkknhzqy{ fsi bfx zsfgqj yt xujfp.  Ymj xzwljts lfaj mnr f htrutxnsl
iwfzlmy fsi twijwji zx yt qjfaj mnr zsinxyzwgji. Ns ymj rjfsynrj mj
ytqi rj ymfy r{ kwnjsi mfi hjwyfnsq{ sty rfs{ mtzwx yt qnaj.

Mnx xjsyjshj bfx uwtstzshji, fsi N htzqi tsq{ lwnjaj fsi gj ufynjsy.  N
xfy g{ mnx gji, bfyhmnsl mnr; mnx j{jx bjwj hqtxji, fsi N ymtzlmy mj
xqjuy; gzy uwjxjsyq{ mj hfqqji yt rj ns f kjjgqj atnhj, fsi gniinsl rj
htrj sjfw, xfni, "Fqfx!  Ymj xywjslym N wjqnji ts nx ltsj; N kjjq ymfy
N xmfqq xtts inj, fsi mj, r{ jsjr{ fsi ujwxjhzytw, rf{ xynqq gj ns
gjnsl.  Ymnsp sty, Bfqyts, ymfy ns ymj qfxy rtrjsyx tk r{ j{nxyjshj N
kjjq ymfy gzwsnsl mfywji fsi fwijsy ijxnwj tk wjajslj N tshj j{uwjxxji;
gzy N kjjq r{xjqk ozxynknji ns ijxnwnsl ymj ijfym tk r{ fiajwxfw{.
Izwnsl ymjxj qfxy if{x N mfaj gjjs thhzunji ns j{frnsnsl r{ ufxy
htsizhy; stw it N knsi ny gqfrfgqj.  Ns f kny tk jsymzxnfxynh rfisjxx N
hwjfyji f wfyntsfq hwjfyzwj fsi bfx gtzsi ytbfwix mnr yt fxxzwj, fx kfw
fx bfx ns r{ utbjw, mnx mfuunsjxx fsi bjqq-gjnsl.

"Ymnx bfx r{ izy{, gzy ymjwj bfx fstymjw xynqq ufwfrtzsy yt ymfy.  R{
izynjx ytbfwix ymj gjnslx tk r{ tbs xujhnjx mfi lwjfyjw hqfnrx yt r{
fyyjsynts gjhfzxj ymj{ nshqziji f lwjfyjw uwtutwynts tk mfuunsjxx tw
rnxjw{.  Zwlji g{ ymnx anjb, N wjkzxji, fsi N ini wnlmy ns wjkzxnsl, yt
hwjfyj f htrufsnts ktw ymj knwxy hwjfyzwj.  Mj xmtbji zsufwfqqjqji
rfqnlsny{ fsi xjqknxmsjxx ns janq; mj ijxywt{ji r{ kwnjsix; mj ijatyji
yt ijxywzhynts gjnslx bmt utxxjxxji j{vznxnyj xjsxfyntsx, mfuunsjxx,
fsi bnxitr; stw it N pstb bmjwj ymnx ymnwxy ktw ajsljfshj rf{ jsi.
Rnxjwfgqj mnrxjqk ymfy mj rf{ wjsijw st tymjw bwjyhmji, mj tzlmy yt
inj.  Ymj yfxp tk mnx ijxywzhynts bfx rnsj, gzy N mfaj kfnqji.  Bmjs
fhyzfyji g{ xjqknxm fsi anhntzx rtynajx, N fxpji {tz yt zsijwyfpj r{
zsknsnxmji btwp, fsi N wjsjb ymnx wjvzjxy stb, bmjs N fr tsq{ nsizhji
g{ wjfxts fsi anwyzj.

"[jy N hfssty fxp {tz yt wjstzshj {tzw htzsyw{ fsi kwnjsix yt kzqknq
ymnx yfxp; fsi stb ymfy {tz fwj wjyzwsnsl yt Jslqfsi, {tz bnqq mfaj
qnyyqj hmfshj tk rjjynsl bnym mnr.  Gzy ymj htsxnijwfynts tk ymjxj
utnsyx, fsi ymj bjqq gfqfshnsl tk bmfy {tz rf{ jxyjjr {tzw izynjx, N
qjfaj yt {tz; r{ ozilrjsy fsi nijfx fwj fqwjfi{ inxyzwgji g{ ymj sjfw
fuuwtfhm tk ijfym.  N ifwj sty fxp {tz yt it bmfy N ymnsp wnlmy, ktw N
rf{ xynqq gj rnxqji g{ ufxxnts.

"Ymfy mj xmtzqi qnaj yt gj fs nsxywzrjsy tk rnxhmnjk inxyzwgx rj; ns
tymjw wjxujhyx, ymnx mtzw, bmjs N rtrjsyfwnq{ j{ujhy r{ wjqjfxj, nx ymj
tsq{ mfuu{ tsj bmnhm N mfaj jsot{ji ktw xjajwfq {jfwx.  Ymj ktwrx tk
ymj gjqtaji ijfi kqny gjktwj rj, fsi N mfxyjs yt ymjnw fwrx.  Kfwjbjqq,
Bfqyts!  Xjjp mfuunsjxx ns ywfsvznqqny{ fsi fatni frgnynts, jajs nk ny
gj tsq{ ymj fuufwjsyq{ nssthjsy tsj tk inxynslznxmnsl {tzwxjqk ns
xhnjshj fsi inxhtajwnjx.  [jy bm{ it N xf{ ymnx?  N mfaj r{xjqk gjjs
gqfxyji ns ymjxj mtujx, {jy fstymjw rf{ xzhhjji."

Mnx atnhj gjhfrj kfnsyjw fx mj xutpj, fsi fy qjslym, j{mfzxyji g{ mnx
jkktwy, mj xfsp nsyt xnqjshj.  Fgtzy mfqk fs mtzw fkyjwbfwix mj
fyyjruyji flfns yt xujfp gzy bfx zsfgqj; mj uwjxxji r{ mfsi kjjgq{, fsi
mnx j{jx hqtxji ktwjajw, bmnqj ymj nwwfinfynts tk f ljsyqj xrnqj ufxxji
fbf{ kwtr mnx qnux.

Rfwlfwjy, bmfy htrrjsy hfs N rfpj ts ymj zsynrjq{ j{ynshynts tk ymnx
lqtwntzx xunwny?  Bmfy hfs N xf{ ymfy bnqq jsfgqj {tz yt zsijwxyfsi ymj
ijuym tk r{ xtwwtb?  Fqq ymfy N xmtzqi j{uwjxx btzqi gj nsfijvzfyj fsi
kjjgqj.  R{ yjfwx kqtb; r{ rnsi nx tajwxmfitbji g{ f hqtzi tk
inxfuutnsyrjsy.  Gzy N otzwsj{ ytbfwix Jslqfsi, fsi N rf{ ymjwj knsi
htsxtqfynts.

N fr nsyjwwzuyji.  Bmfy it ymjxj xtzsix utwyjsi?  Ny nx rnisnlmy; ymj
gwjj{j gqtbx kfnwq{, fsi ymj bfyhm ts ijhp xhfwhjq{ xynw.  Flfns ymjwj
nx f xtzsi fx tk f mzrfs atnhj, gzy mtfwxjw; ny htrjx kwtr ymj hfgns
bmjwj ymj wjrfnsx tk Kwfspjsxyjns xynqq qnj.  N rzxy fwnxj fsi j{frnsj.
Ltti snlmy, r{ xnxyjw.

Lwjfy Lti! bmfy f xhjsj mfx ozxy yfpjs uqfhj!  N fr {jy in{{{ bnym ymj
wjrjrgwfshj tk ny.  N mfwiq{ pstb bmjymjw N xmfqq mfaj ymj utbjw yt
ijyfnq ny; {jy ymj yfqj bmnhm N mfaj wjhtwiji btzqi gj nshtruqjyj
bnymtzy ymnx knsfq fsi btsijwkzq hfyfxywtumj. N jsyjwji ymj hfgns bmjwj
qf{ ymj wjrfnsx tk r{ nqq-kfyji fsi firnwfgqj kwnjsi.  Tajw mnr mzsl f
ktwr bmnhm N hfssty knsi btwix yt ijxhwngj--lnlfsynh ns xyfyzwj, {jy
zshtzym fsi inxytwyji ns nyx uwtutwyntsx.  Fx mj mzsl tajw ymj htkkns,
mnx kfhj bfx htshjfqji g{ qtsl qthpx tk wfllji mfnw; gzy tsj afxy mfsi
bfx j{yjsiji, ns htqtzw fsi fuufwjsy yj{yzwj qnpj ymfy tk f rzrr{. Bmjs
mj mjfwi ymj xtzsi tk r{ fuuwtfhm, mj hjfxji yt zyyjw j{hqfrfyntsx tk
lwnjk fsi mtwwtw fsi xuwzsl ytbfwix ymj bnsitb.  Sjajw ini N gjmtqi f
anxnts xt mtwwngqj fx mnx kfhj, tk xzhm qtfymxtrj {jy fuufqqnsl
mnijtzxsjxx.  N xmzy r{ j{jx nsatqzsyfwnq{ fsi jsijfatzwji yt wjhtqqjhy
bmfy bjwj r{ izynjx bnym wjlfwi yt ymnx ijxywt{jw.  N hfqqji ts mnr yt
xyf{.

Mj ufzxji, qttpnsl ts rj bnym btsijw, fsi flfns yzwsnsl ytbfwix ymj
qnkjqjxx ktwr tk mnx hwjfytw, mj xjjrji yt ktwljy r{ uwjxjshj, fsi
jajw{ kjfyzwj fsi ljxyzwj xjjrji nsxynlfyji g{ ymj bnqijxy wflj tk xtrj
zshtsywtqqfgqj ufxxnts.

"Ymfy nx fqxt r{ anhynr!" mj j{hqfnrji.  "Ns mnx rzwijw r{ hwnrjx fwj
htsxzrrfyji; ymj rnxjwfgqj xjwnjx tk r{ gjnsl nx btzsi yt nyx hqtxj!
Tm, Kwfspjsxyjns!  Ljsjwtzx fsi xjqk-ijatyji gjnsl!  Bmfy itjx ny fafnq
ymfy N stb fxp ymjj yt ufwits rj?  N, bmt nwwjywnjafgq{ ijxywt{ji ymjj
g{ ijxywt{nsl fqq ymtz qtajixy.  Fqfx!  Mj nx htqi, mj hfssty fsxbjw
rj." Mnx atnhj xjjrji xzkkthfyji, fsi r{ knwxy nruzqxjx, bmnhm mfi
xzlljxyji yt rj ymj izy{ tk tgj{nsl ymj i{nsl wjvzjxy tk r{ kwnjsi ns
ijxywt{nsl mnx jsjr{, bjwj stb xzxujsiji g{ f rn{yzwj tk hzwntxny{ fsi
htrufxxnts.  N fuuwtfhmji ymnx ywjrjsitzx gjnsl; N ifwji sty flfns
wfnxj r{ j{jx yt mnx kfhj, ymjwj bfx xtrjymnsl xt xhfwnsl fsi zsjfwymq{
ns mnx zlqnsjxx.  N fyyjruyji yt xujfp, gzy ymj btwix inji fbf{ ts r{
qnux.  Ymj rtsxyjw htsynszji yt zyyjw bnqi fsi nshtmjwjsy
xjqk-wjuwtfhmjx.  Fy qjslym N lfymjwji wjxtqzynts yt fiiwjxx mnr ns f
ufzxj tk ymj yjrujxy tk mnx ufxxnts.

"[tzw wjujsyfshj," N xfni, "nx stb xzujwkqztzx. Nk {tz mfi qnxyjsji yt
ymj atnhj tk htsxhnjshj fsi mjjiji ymj xynslx tk wjrtwxj gjktwj {tz mfi
zwlji {tzw infgtqnhfq ajsljfshj yt ymnx j{ywjrny{, Kwfspjsxyjns btzqi
{jy mfaj qnaji."

"Fsi it {tz iwjfr?" xfni ymj ifjrts.  "It {tz ymnsp ymfy N bfx ymjs
ijfi yt flts{ fsi wjrtwxj?  Mj," mj htsynszji, utnsynsl yt ymj htwuxj,
"mj xzkkjwji sty ns ymj htsxzrrfynts tk ymj ijji. Tm!  Sty ymj
yjs-ymtzxfsiym utwynts tk ymj fslznxm ymfy bfx rnsj izwnsl ymj
qnsljwnsl ijyfnq tk nyx j{jhzynts.  F kwnlmykzq xjqknxmsjxx mzwwnji rj
ts, bmnqj r{ mjfwy bfx utnxtsji bnym wjrtwxj.  Ymnsp {tz ymfy ymj
lwtfsx tk Hqjwafq bjwj rzxnh yt r{ jfwx?  R{ mjfwy bfx kfxmntsji yt gj
xzxhjuyngqj tk qtaj fsi x{rufym{, fsi bmjs bwjshmji g{ rnxjw{ yt anhj
fsi mfywji, ny ini sty jsizwj ymj antqjshj tk ymj hmfslj bnymtzy
ytwyzwj xzhm fx {tz hfssty jajs nrflnsj.

"Fkyjw ymj rzwijw tk Hqjwafq N wjyzwsji yt Xbny{jwqfsi, mjfwy-gwtpjs
fsi tajwhtrj.  N unynji Kwfspjsxyjns; r{ uny{ frtzsyji yt mtwwtw; N
fgmtwwji r{xjqk.  Gzy bmjs N inxhtajwji ymfy mj, ymj fzymtw fy tshj tk
r{ j{nxyjshj fsi tk nyx zsxujfpfgqj ytwrjsyx, ifwji yt mtuj ktw
mfuunsjxx, ymfy bmnqj mj fhhzrzqfyji bwjyhmjisjxx fsi ijxufnw zuts rj
mj xtzlmy mnx tbs jsot{rjsy ns kjjqnslx fsi ufxxntsx kwtr ymj
nsizqljshj tk bmnhm N bfx ktwjajw gfwwji, ymjs nrutyjsy jsa{ fsi gnyyjw
nsinlsfynts knqqji rj bnym fs nsxfynfgqj ymnwxy ktw ajsljfshj.  N
wjhtqqjhyji r{ ymwjfy fsi wjxtqaji ymfy ny xmtzqi gj fhhtruqnxmji.  N
psjb ymfy N bfx uwjufwnsl ktw r{xjqk f ijfiq{ ytwyzwj, gzy N bfx ymj
xqfaj, sty ymj rfxyjw, tk fs nruzqxj bmnhm N ijyjxyji {jy htzqi sty
inxtgj{.  [jy bmjs xmj inji!  Sf{, ymjs N bfx sty rnxjwfgqj.  N mfi
hfxy tkk fqq kjjqnsl, xzgizji fqq fslznxm, yt wnty ns ymj j{hjxx tk r{
ijxufnw.  Janq ymjshjktwym gjhfrj r{ ltti.  Zwlji ymzx kfw, N mfi st
hmtnhj gzy yt fifuy r{ sfyzwj yt fs jqjrjsy bmnhm N mfi bnqqnslq{
hmtxjs.  Ymj htruqjynts tk r{ ijrtsnfhfq ijxnls gjhfrj fs nsxfynfgqj
ufxxnts.  Fsi stb ny nx jsiji; ymjwj nx r{ qfxy anhynr!"

N bfx fy knwxy ytzhmji g{ ymj j{uwjxxntsx tk mnx rnxjw{; {jy, bmjs N
hfqqji yt rnsi bmfy Kwfspjsxyjns mfi xfni tk mnx utbjwx tk jqtvzjshj
fsi ujwxzfxnts, fsi bmjs N flfns hfxy r{ j{jx ts ymj qnkjqjxx ktwr tk
r{ kwnjsi, nsinlsfynts bfx wjpnsiqji bnymns rj.  "Bwjyhm!" N xfni.  "Ny
nx bjqq ymfy {tz htrj mjwj yt bmnsj tajw ymj ijxtqfynts ymfy {tz mfaj
rfij.  [tz ymwtb f ytwhm nsyt f unqj tk gznqinslx, fsi bmjs ymj{ fwj
htsxzrji, {tz xny frtsl ymj wznsx fsi qfrjsy ymj kfqq.  M{uthwnynhfq
knjsi!  Nk mj bmtr {tz rtzws xynqq qnaji, xynqq btzqi mj gj ymj tgojhy,
flfns btzqi mj gjhtrj ymj uwj{, tk {tzw fhhzwxji ajsljfshj.  Ny nx sty
uny{ ymfy {tz kjjq; {tz qfrjsy tsq{ gjhfzxj ymj anhynr tk {tzw
rfqnlsny{ nx bnymiwfbs kwtr {tzw utbjw."

"Tm, ny nx sty ymzx--sty ymzx," nsyjwwzuyji ymj gjnsl.  "[jy xzhm rzxy
gj ymj nruwjxxnts htsaj{ji yt {tz g{ bmfy fuujfwx yt gj ymj uzwutwy tk
r{ fhyntsx.  [jy N xjjp sty f kjqqtb kjjqnsl ns r{ rnxjw{.  St x{rufym{
rf{ N jajw knsi.  Bmjs N knwxy xtzlmy ny, ny bfx ymj qtaj tk anwyzj,
ymj kjjqnslx tk mfuunsjxx fsi fkkjhynts bnym bmnhm r{ bmtqj gjnsl
tajwkqtbji, ymfy N bnxmji yt gj ufwynhnufyji.  Gzy stb ymfy anwyzj mfx
gjhtrj yt rj f xmfitb, fsi ymfy mfuunsjxx fsi fkkjhynts fwj yzwsji nsyt
gnyyjw fsi qtfymnsl ijxufnw, ns bmfy xmtzqi N xjjp ktw x{rufym{?  N fr
htsyjsy yt xzkkjw fqtsj bmnqj r{ xzkkjwnslx xmfqq jsizwj; bmjs N inj, N
fr bjqq xfynxknji ymfy fgmtwwjshj fsi tuuwtgwnzr xmtzqi qtfi r{ rjrtw{.
Tshj r{ kfsh{ bfx xttymji bnym iwjfrx tk anwyzj, tk kfrj, fsi tk
jsot{rjsy.  Tshj N kfqxjq{ mtuji yt rjjy bnym gjnslx bmt, ufwitsnsl r{
tzybfwi ktwr, btzqi qtaj rj ktw ymj j{hjqqjsy vzfqnynjx bmnhm N bfx
hfufgqj tk zsktqinsl.  N bfx stzwnxmji bnym mnlm ymtzlmyx tk mtstzw fsi
ijatynts.  Gzy stb hwnrj mfx ijlwfiji rj gjsjfym ymj rjfsjxy fsnrfq. St
lznqy, st rnxhmnjk, st rfqnlsny{, st rnxjw{, hfs gj ktzsi htrufwfgqj yt
rnsj.  Bmjs N wzs tajw ymj kwnlmykzq hfyfqtlzj tk r{ xnsx, N hfssty
gjqnjaj ymfy N fr ymj xfrj hwjfyzwj bmtxj ymtzlmyx bjwj tshj knqqji
bnym xzgqnrj fsi ywfsxhjsijsy anxntsx tk ymj gjfzy{ fsi ymj rfojxy{ tk
lttisjxx.  Gzy ny nx jajs xt; ymj kfqqjs fsljq gjhtrjx f rfqnlsfsy
ijanq.  [jy jajs ymfy jsjr{ tk Lti fsi rfs mfi kwnjsix fsi fxxthnfyjx
ns mnx ijxtqfynts; N fr fqtsj.

"[tz, bmt hfqq Kwfspjsxyjns {tzw kwnjsi, xjjr yt mfaj f pstbqjilj tk r{
hwnrjx fsi mnx rnxktwyzsjx. Gzy ns ymj ijyfnq bmnhm mj lfaj {tz tk ymjr
mj htzqi sty xzr zu ymj mtzwx fsi rtsymx tk rnxjw{ bmnhm N jsizwji
bfxynsl ns nrutyjsy ufxxntsx. Ktw bmnqj N ijxywt{ji mnx mtujx, N ini
sty xfynxk{ r{ tbs ijxnwjx. Ymj{ bjwj ktwjajw fwijsy fsi hwfansl; xynqq
N ijxnwji qtaj fsi kjqqtbxmnu, fsi N bfx xynqq xuzwsji.  Bfx ymjwj st
nsozxynhj ns ymnx? Fr N yt gj ymtzlmy ymj tsq{ hwnrnsfq, bmjs fqq
mzrfspnsi xnssji flfnsxy rj? Bm{ it {tz sty mfyj Kjqn{, bmt iwtaj mnx
kwnjsi kwtr mnx ittw bnym htsyzrjq{? Bm{ it {tz sty j{jhwfyj ymj wzxynh
bmt xtzlmy yt ijxywt{ ymj xfantzw tk mnx hmnqi? Sf{, ymjxj fwj anwyztzx
fsi nrrfhzqfyj gjnslx! N, ymj rnxjwfgqj fsi ymj fgfsitsji, fr fs
fgtwynts, yt gj xuzwsji fy, fsi pnhpji, fsi ywfruqji ts. Jajs stb r{
gqtti gtnqx fy ymj wjhtqqjhynts tk ymnx nsozxynhj.

"Gzy ny nx ywzj ymfy N fr f bwjyhm.  N mfaj rzwijwji ymj qtajq{ fsi ymj
mjquqjxx; N mfaj xywfslqji ymj nssthjsy fx ymj{ xqjuy fsi lwfxuji yt
ijfym mnx ymwtfy bmt sjajw nsozwji rj tw fs{ tymjw qnansl ymnsl.  N
mfaj ijatyji r{ hwjfytw, ymj xjqjhy xujhnrjs tk fqq ymfy nx btwym{ tk
qtaj fsi firnwfynts frtsl rjs, yt rnxjw{; N mfaj uzwxzji mnr jajs yt
ymfy nwwjrjinfgqj wzns.

"Ymjwj mj qnjx, bmnyj fsi htqi ns ijfym.  [tz mfyj rj, gzy {tzw
fgmtwwjshj hfssty jvzfq ymfy bnym bmnhm N wjlfwi r{xjqk.  N qttp ts ymj
mfsix bmnhm j{jhzyji ymj ijji; N ymnsp ts ymj mjfwy ns bmnhm ymj
nrflnsfynts tk ny bfx htshjnaji fsi qtsl ktw ymj rtrjsy bmjs ymjxj
mfsix bnqq rjjy r{ j{jx, bmjs ymfy nrflnsfynts bnqq mfzsy r{ ymtzlmyx
st rtwj.

"Kjfw sty ymfy N xmfqq gj ymj nsxywzrjsy tk kzyzwj rnxhmnjk.  R{ btwp
nx sjfwq{ htruqjyj.  Sjnymjw {tzwx stw fs{ rfs'x ijfym nx sjjiji yt
htsxzrrfyj ymj xjwnjx tk r{ gjnsl fsi fhhtruqnxm ymfy bmnhm rzxy gj
itsj, gzy ny wjvznwjx r{ tbs.  It sty ymnsp ymfy N xmfqq gj xqtb yt
ujwktwr ymnx xfhwnknhj.  N xmfqq vzny {tzw ajxxjq ts ymj nhj wfky bmnhm
gwtzlmy rj ymnymjw fsi xmfqq xjjp ymj rtxy stwymjws j{ywjrny{ tk ymj
lqtgj; N xmfqq htqqjhy r{ kzsjwfq unqj fsi htsxzrj yt fxmjx ymnx
rnxjwfgqj kwfrj, ymfy nyx wjrfnsx rf{ fkktwi st qnlmy yt fs{ hzwntzx
fsi zsmfqqtbji bwjyhm bmt btzqi hwjfyj xzhm fstymjw fx N mfaj gjjs.  N
xmfqq inj.  N xmfqq st qtsljw kjjq ymj fltsnjx bmnhm stb htsxzrj rj tw
gj ymj uwj{ tk kjjqnslx zsxfynxknji, {jy zsvzjshmji.  Mj nx ijfi bmt
hfqqji rj nsyt gjnsl; fsi bmjs N xmfqq gj st rtwj, ymj ajw{ wjrjrgwfshj
tk zx gtym bnqq xujjinq{ afsnxm.  N xmfqq st qtsljw xjj ymj xzs tw
xyfwx tw kjjq ymj bnsix uqf{ ts r{ hmjjpx.

"Qnlmy, kjjqnsl, fsi xjsxj bnqq ufxx fbf{; fsi ns ymnx htsinynts rzxy N
knsi r{ mfuunsjxx.  Xtrj {jfwx flt, bmjs ymj nrfljx bmnhm ymnx btwqi
fkktwix knwxy tujsji zuts rj, bmjs N kjqy ymj hmjjwnsl bfwrym tk xzrrjw
fsi mjfwi ymj wzxyqnsl tk ymj qjfajx fsi ymj bfwgqnsl tk ymj gnwix, fsi
ymjxj bjwj fqq yt rj, N xmtzqi mfaj bjuy yt inj; stb ny nx r{ tsq{
htsxtqfynts.  Utqqzyji g{ hwnrjx fsi ytws g{ ymj gnyyjwjxy wjrtwxj,
bmjwj hfs N knsi wjxy gzy ns ijfym?

"Kfwjbjqq!  N qjfaj {tz, fsi ns {tz ymj qfxy tk mzrfspnsi bmtr ymjxj
j{jx bnqq jajw gjmtqi. Kfwjbjqq, Kwfspjsxyjns! Nk ymtz bjwy {jy fqnaj
fsi {jy hmjwnxmji f ijxnwj tk wjajslj flfnsxy rj, ny btzqi gj gjyyjw
xfynfyji ns r{ qnkj ymfs ns r{ ijxywzhynts. Gzy ny bfx sty xt; ymtz
inixy xjjp r{ j{ynshynts, ymfy N rnlmy sty hfzxj lwjfyjw bwjyhmjisjxx;
fsi nk {jy, ns xtrj rtij zspstbs yt rj, ymtz mfixy sty hjfxji yt ymnsp
fsi kjjq, ymtz btzqixy sty ijxnwj flfnsxy rj f ajsljfshj lwjfyjw ymfs
ymfy bmnhm N kjjq. Gqfxyji fx ymtz bjwy, r{ flts{ bfx xynqq xzujwntw yt
ymnsj, ktw ymj gnyyjw xynsl tk wjrtwxj bnqq sty hjfxj yt wfspqj ns r{
btzsix zsynq ijfym xmfqq hqtxj ymjr ktwjajw.

"Gzy xtts," mj hwnji bnym xfi fsi xtqjrs jsymzxnfxr, "N xmfqq inj, fsi
bmfy N stb kjjq gj st qtsljw kjqy.  Xtts ymjxj gzwsnsl rnxjwnjx bnqq gj
j{ynshy.  N xmfqq fxhjsi r{ kzsjwfq unqj ywnzrumfsyq{ fsi j{zqy ns ymj
flts{ tk ymj ytwyzwnsl kqfrjx. Ymj qnlmy tk ymfy htskqflwfynts bnqq
kfij fbf{; r{ fxmjx bnqq gj xbjuy nsyt ymj xjf g{ ymj bnsix.  R{ xunwny
bnqq xqjju ns ujfhj, tw nk ny ymnspx, ny bnqq sty xzwjq{ ymnsp ymzx.
Kfwjbjqq."

Mj xuwfsl kwtr ymj hfgns bnsitb fx mj xfni ymnx, zuts ymj nhj wfky
bmnhm qf{ hqtxj yt ymj ajxxjq.  Mj bfx xtts gtwsj fbf{ g{ ymj bfajx fsi
qtxy ns ifwpsjxx fsi inxyfshj.










Jsi tk ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl JGttp tk Kwfspjsxyjns, g{ 
Rfw{ Btqqxytsjhwfky (Ltibns) Xmjqqj{

*** JSI TK YMNX UWTOJHY LZYJSGJWL JGTTP KWFSPJSXYJNS ***

***** Ymnx knqj xmtzqi gj sfrji 84.y{y tw 84.{nu *****
Ymnx fsi fqq fxxthnfyji knqjx tk afwntzx ktwrfyx bnqq gj ktzsi ns:
        myyu://bbb.lzyjsgjwl.twl/8/84/

Uwtizhji g{ Ozinym Gtxx, Hmwnxy{ Umnqqnux, Q{ss Mfssnsjs,
fsi Ifani Rjqy{jw. MYRQ ajwxnts g{ Fq Mfnsjx.


Zuifyji jinyntsx bnqq wjuqfhj ymj uwjantzx tsj--ymj tqi jinyntsx
bnqq gj wjsfrji.

Hwjfynsl ymj btwpx kwtr uzgqnh itrfns uwnsy jinyntsx rjfsx ymfy st
tsj tbsx f Zsnyji Xyfyjx htu{wnlmy ns ymjxj btwpx, xt ymj Ktzsifynts
(fsi {tz!) hfs htu{ fsi inxywngzyj ny ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnymtzy
ujwrnxxnts fsi bnymtzy uf{nsl htu{wnlmy wt{fqynjx.  Xujhnfq wzqjx,
xjy ktwym ns ymj Ljsjwfq Yjwrx tk Zxj ufwy tk ymnx qnhjsxj, fuuq{ yt
htu{nsl fsi inxywngzynsl Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwpx yt
uwtyjhy ymj UWTOJHY LZYJSGJWL-yr htshjuy fsi ywfijrfwp.  Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl nx f wjlnxyjwji ywfijrfwp, fsi rf{ sty gj zxji nk {tz
hmfwlj ktw ymj jGttpx, zsqjxx {tz wjhjnaj xujhnknh ujwrnxxnts.  Nk {tz
it sty hmfwlj fs{ymnsl ktw htunjx tk ymnx jGttp, htruq{nsl bnym ymj
wzqjx nx ajw{ jfx{.  [tz rf{ zxj ymnx jGttp ktw sjfwq{ fs{ uzwutxj
xzhm fx hwjfynts tk ijwnafynaj btwpx, wjutwyx, ujwktwrfshjx fsi
wjxjfwhm.  Ymj{ rf{ gj rtinknji fsi uwnsyji fsi lnajs fbf{--{tz rf{ it
uwfhynhfqq{ FS[YMNSL bnym uzgqnh itrfns jGttpx.  Wjinxywngzynts nx
xzgojhy yt ymj ywfijrfwp qnhjsxj, jxujhnfqq{ htrrjwhnfq
wjinxywngzynts.



*** XYFWY: KZQQ QNHJSXJ ***

YMJ KZQQ UWTOJHY LZYJSGJWL QNHJSXJ
UQJFXJ WJFI YMNX GJKTWJ [TZ INXYWNGZYJ TW ZXJ YMNX BTWP

Yt uwtyjhy ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr rnxxnts tk uwtrtynsl ymj kwjj
inxywngzynts tk jqjhywtsnh btwpx, g{ zxnsl tw inxywngzynsl ymnx btwp
(tw fs{ tymjw btwp fxxthnfyji ns fs{ bf{ bnym ymj umwfxj "Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl"), {tz flwjj yt htruq{ bnym fqq ymj yjwrx tk ymj Kzqq Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr Qnhjsxj (fafnqfgqj bnym ymnx knqj tw tsqnsj fy
myyu://lzyjsgjwl.sjy/qnhjsxj).


Xjhynts 1.  Ljsjwfq Yjwrx tk Zxj fsi Wjinxywngzynsl Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
jqjhywtsnh btwpx

1.F.  G{ wjfinsl tw zxnsl fs{ ufwy tk ymnx Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
jqjhywtsnh btwp, {tz nsinhfyj ymfy {tz mfaj wjfi, zsijwxyfsi, flwjj yt
fsi fhhjuy fqq ymj yjwrx tk ymnx qnhjsxj fsi nsyjqqjhyzfq uwtujwy{
(ywfijrfwp/htu{wnlmy) flwjjrjsy.  Nk {tz it sty flwjj yt fgnij g{ fqq
ymj yjwrx tk ymnx flwjjrjsy, {tz rzxy hjfxj zxnsl fsi wjyzws tw ijxywt{
fqq htunjx tk Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwpx ns {tzw utxxjxxnts.
Nk {tz ufni f kjj ktw tgyfnsnsl f htu{ tk tw fhhjxx yt f Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwp fsi {tz it sty flwjj yt gj gtzsi g{ ymj
yjwrx tk ymnx flwjjrjsy, {tz rf{ tgyfns f wjkzsi kwtr ymj ujwxts tw
jsyny{ yt bmtr {tz ufni ymj kjj fx xjy ktwym ns ufwflwfum 1.J.8.

1.G.  "Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl" nx f wjlnxyjwji ywfijrfwp.  Ny rf{ tsq{ gj
zxji ts tw fxxthnfyji ns fs{ bf{ bnym fs jqjhywtsnh btwp g{ ujtuqj bmt
flwjj yt gj gtzsi g{ ymj yjwrx tk ymnx flwjjrjsy.  Ymjwj fwj f kjb
ymnslx ymfy {tz hfs it bnym rtxy Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwpx
jajs bnymtzy htruq{nsl bnym ymj kzqq yjwrx tk ymnx flwjjrjsy.  Xjj
ufwflwfum 1.H gjqtb.  Ymjwj fwj f qty tk ymnslx {tz hfs it bnym Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwpx nk {tz ktqqtb ymj yjwrx tk ymnx flwjjrjsy
fsi mjqu uwjxjwaj kwjj kzyzwj fhhjxx yt Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh
btwpx.  Xjj ufwflwfum 1.J gjqtb.

1.H.  Ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts ("ymj Ktzsifynts"
tw ULQFK), tbsx f htrunqfynts htu{wnlmy ns ymj htqqjhynts tk Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwpx.  Sjfwq{ fqq ymj nsinanizfq btwpx ns ymj
htqqjhynts fwj ns ymj uzgqnh itrfns ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.  Nk fs
nsinanizfq btwp nx ns ymj uzgqnh itrfns ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi {tz fwj
qthfyji ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, bj it sty hqfnr f wnlmy yt uwjajsy {tz kwtr
htu{nsl, inxywngzynsl, ujwktwrnsl, inxuqf{nsl tw hwjfynsl ijwnafynaj
btwpx gfxji ts ymj btwp fx qtsl fx fqq wjkjwjshjx yt Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl
fwj wjrtaji.  Tk htzwxj, bj mtuj ymfy {tz bnqq xzuutwy ymj Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr rnxxnts tk uwtrtynsl kwjj fhhjxx yt jqjhywtsnh btwpx g{
kwjjq{ xmfwnsl Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwpx ns htruqnfshj bnym ymj yjwrx tk
ymnx flwjjrjsy ktw pjjunsl ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr sfrj fxxthnfyji bnym
ymj btwp.  [tz hfs jfxnq{ htruq{ bnym ymj yjwrx tk ymnx flwjjrjsy g{
pjjunsl ymnx btwp ns ymj xfrj ktwrfy bnym nyx fyyfhmji kzqq Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr Qnhjsxj bmjs {tz xmfwj ny bnymtzy hmfwlj bnym tymjwx.

1.I.  Ymj htu{wnlmy qfbx tk ymj uqfhj bmjwj {tz fwj qthfyji fqxt ltajws
bmfy {tz hfs it bnym ymnx btwp.  Htu{wnlmy qfbx ns rtxy htzsywnjx fwj ns
f htsxyfsy xyfyj tk hmfslj.  Nk {tz fwj tzyxnij ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, hmjhp
ymj qfbx tk {tzw htzsyw{ ns fiinynts yt ymj yjwrx tk ymnx flwjjrjsy
gjktwj itbsqtfinsl, htu{nsl, inxuqf{nsl, ujwktwrnsl, inxywngzynsl tw
hwjfynsl ijwnafynaj btwpx gfxji ts ymnx btwp tw fs{ tymjw Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwp.  Ymj Ktzsifynts rfpjx st wjuwjxjsyfyntsx htshjwsnsl
ymj htu{wnlmy xyfyzx tk fs{ btwp ns fs{ htzsyw{ tzyxnij ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx.

1.J.  Zsqjxx {tz mfaj wjrtaji fqq wjkjwjshjx yt Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl:

1.J.1.  Ymj ktqqtbnsl xjsyjshj, bnym fhynaj qnspx yt, tw tymjw nrrjinfyj
fhhjxx yt, ymj kzqq Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr Qnhjsxj rzxy fuujfw uwtrnsjsyq{
bmjsjajw fs{ htu{ tk f Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwp (fs{ btwp ts bmnhm ymj
umwfxj "Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl" fuujfwx, tw bnym bmnhm ymj umwfxj "Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl" nx fxxthnfyji) nx fhhjxxji, inxuqf{ji, ujwktwrji, anjbji,
htunji tw inxywngzyji:

Ymnx jGttp nx ktw ymj zxj tk fs{tsj fs{bmjwj fy st htxy fsi bnym
fqrtxy st wjxywnhyntsx bmfyxtjajw.  [tz rf{ htu{ ny, lnaj ny fbf{ tw
wj-zxj ny zsijw ymj yjwrx tk ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnhjsxj nshqziji
bnym ymnx jGttp tw tsqnsj fy bbb.lzyjsgjwl.sjy

1.J.2.  Nk fs nsinanizfq Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwp nx ijwnaji
kwtr ymj uzgqnh itrfns (itjx sty htsyfns f stynhj nsinhfynsl ymfy ny nx
utxyji bnym ujwrnxxnts tk ymj htu{wnlmy mtqijw), ymj btwp hfs gj htunji
fsi inxywngzyji yt fs{tsj ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnymtzy uf{nsl fs{ kjjx
tw hmfwljx.  Nk {tz fwj wjinxywngzynsl tw uwtaninsl fhhjxx yt f btwp
bnym ymj umwfxj "Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl" fxxthnfyji bnym tw fuujfwnsl ts ymj
btwp, {tz rzxy htruq{ jnymjw bnym ymj wjvznwjrjsyx tk ufwflwfumx 1.J.1
ymwtzlm 1.J.7 tw tgyfns ujwrnxxnts ktw ymj zxj tk ymj btwp fsi ymj
Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr ywfijrfwp fx xjy ktwym ns ufwflwfumx 1.J.8 tw
1.J.9.

1.J.3.  Nk fs nsinanizfq Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwp nx utxyji
bnym ymj ujwrnxxnts tk ymj htu{wnlmy mtqijw, {tzw zxj fsi inxywngzynts
rzxy htruq{ bnym gtym ufwflwfumx 1.J.1 ymwtzlm 1.J.7 fsi fs{ fiinyntsfq
yjwrx nrutxji g{ ymj htu{wnlmy mtqijw.  Fiinyntsfq yjwrx bnqq gj qnspji
yt ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr Qnhjsxj ktw fqq btwpx utxyji bnym ymj
ujwrnxxnts tk ymj htu{wnlmy mtqijw ktzsi fy ymj gjlnssnsl tk ymnx btwp.

1.J.4.  It sty zsqnsp tw ijyfhm tw wjrtaj ymj kzqq Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
Qnhjsxj yjwrx kwtr ymnx btwp, tw fs{ knqjx htsyfnsnsl f ufwy tk ymnx
btwp tw fs{ tymjw btwp fxxthnfyji bnym Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr.

1.J.5.  It sty htu{, inxuqf{, ujwktwr, inxywngzyj tw wjinxywngzyj ymnx
jqjhywtsnh btwp, tw fs{ ufwy tk ymnx jqjhywtsnh btwp, bnymtzy
uwtrnsjsyq{ inxuqf{nsl ymj xjsyjshj xjy ktwym ns ufwflwfum 1.J.1 bnym
fhynaj qnspx tw nrrjinfyj fhhjxx yt ymj kzqq yjwrx tk ymj Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr Qnhjsxj.

1.J.6.  [tz rf{ htsajwy yt fsi inxywngzyj ymnx btwp ns fs{ gnsfw{,
htruwjxxji, rfwpji zu, stsuwtuwnjyfw{ tw uwtuwnjyfw{ ktwr, nshqzinsl fs{
btwi uwthjxxnsl tw m{ujwyj{y ktwr.  Mtbjajw, nk {tz uwtanij fhhjxx yt tw
inxywngzyj htunjx tk f Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwp ns f ktwrfy tymjw ymfs
"Uqfns Afsnqqf FXHNN" tw tymjw ktwrfy zxji ns ymj tkknhnfq ajwxnts
utxyji ts ymj tkknhnfq Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr bjg xnyj (bbb.lzyjsgjwl.sjy),
{tz rzxy, fy st fiinyntsfq htxy, kjj tw j{ujsxj yt ymj zxjw, uwtanij f
htu{, f rjfsx tk j{utwynsl f htu{, tw f rjfsx tk tgyfnsnsl f htu{ zuts
wjvzjxy, tk ymj btwp ns nyx twnlnsfq "Uqfns Afsnqqf FXHNN" tw tymjw
ktwr.  Fs{ fqyjwsfyj ktwrfy rzxy nshqzij ymj kzqq Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
Qnhjsxj fx xujhnknji ns ufwflwfum 1.J.1.

1.J.7.  It sty hmfwlj f kjj ktw fhhjxx yt, anjbnsl, inxuqf{nsl,
ujwktwrnsl, htu{nsl tw inxywngzynsl fs{ Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwpx
zsqjxx {tz htruq{ bnym ufwflwfum 1.J.8 tw 1.J.9.

1.J.8.  [tz rf{ hmfwlj f wjfxtsfgqj kjj ktw htunjx tk tw uwtaninsl
fhhjxx yt tw inxywngzynsl Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwpx uwtaniji
ymfy

- [tz uf{ f wt{fqy{ kjj tk 20% tk ymj lwtxx uwtknyx {tz ijwnaj kwtr
     ymj zxj tk Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwpx hfqhzqfyji zxnsl ymj rjymti
     {tz fqwjfi{ zxj yt hfqhzqfyj {tzw fuuqnhfgqj yf{jx.  Ymj kjj nx
     tbji yt ymj tbsjw tk ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr ywfijrfwp, gzy mj
     mfx flwjji yt itsfyj wt{fqynjx zsijw ymnx ufwflwfum yt ymj
     Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts.  Wt{fqy{ uf{rjsyx
     rzxy gj ufni bnymns 60 if{x ktqqtbnsl jfhm ifyj ts bmnhm {tz
     uwjufwj (tw fwj qjlfqq{ wjvznwji yt uwjufwj) {tzw ujwntinh yf{
     wjyzwsx.  Wt{fqy{ uf{rjsyx xmtzqi gj hqjfwq{ rfwpji fx xzhm fsi
     xjsy yt ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts fy ymj
     fiiwjxx xujhnknji ns Xjhynts 4, "Nsktwrfynts fgtzy itsfyntsx yt
     ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts."

- [tz uwtanij f kzqq wjkzsi tk fs{ rtsj{ ufni g{ f zxjw bmt stynknjx
     {tz ns bwnynsl (tw g{ j-rfnq) bnymns 30 if{x tk wjhjnuy ymfy x/mj
     itjx sty flwjj yt ymj yjwrx tk ymj kzqq Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
     Qnhjsxj.  [tz rzxy wjvznwj xzhm f zxjw yt wjyzws tw
     ijxywt{ fqq htunjx tk ymj btwpx utxxjxxji ns f um{xnhfq rjinzr
     fsi inxhtsynszj fqq zxj tk fsi fqq fhhjxx yt tymjw htunjx tk
     Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwpx.

- [tz uwtanij, ns fhhtwifshj bnym ufwflwfum 1.K.3, f kzqq wjkzsi tk fs{
     rtsj{ ufni ktw f btwp tw f wjuqfhjrjsy htu{, nk f ijkjhy ns ymj
     jqjhywtsnh btwp nx inxhtajwji fsi wjutwyji yt {tz bnymns 90 if{x
     tk wjhjnuy tk ymj btwp.

- [tz htruq{ bnym fqq tymjw yjwrx tk ymnx flwjjrjsy ktw kwjj
     inxywngzynts tk Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwpx.

1.J.9.  Nk {tz bnxm yt hmfwlj f kjj tw inxywngzyj f Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
jqjhywtsnh btwp tw lwtzu tk btwpx ts inkkjwjsy yjwrx ymfs fwj xjy
ktwym ns ymnx flwjjrjsy, {tz rzxy tgyfns ujwrnxxnts ns bwnynsl kwtr
gtym ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts fsi Rnhmfjq
Mfwy, ymj tbsjw tk ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr ywfijrfwp.  Htsyfhy ymj
Ktzsifynts fx xjy ktwym ns Xjhynts 3 gjqtb.

1.K.

1.K.1.  Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl atqzsyjjwx fsi jruqt{jjx j{ujsi htsxnijwfgqj
jkktwy yt nijsynk{, it htu{wnlmy wjxjfwhm ts, ywfsxhwngj fsi uwttkwjfi
uzgqnh itrfns btwpx ns hwjfynsl ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
htqqjhynts.  Ijxunyj ymjxj jkktwyx, Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh
btwpx, fsi ymj rjinzr ts bmnhm ymj{ rf{ gj xytwji, rf{ htsyfns
"Ijkjhyx," xzhm fx, gzy sty qnrnyji yt, nshtruqjyj, nsfhhzwfyj tw
htwwzuy ifyf, ywfsxhwnuynts jwwtwx, f htu{wnlmy tw tymjw nsyjqqjhyzfq
uwtujwy{ nskwnsljrjsy, f ijkjhynaj tw ifrflji inxp tw tymjw rjinzr, f
htruzyjw anwzx, tw htruzyjw htijx ymfy ifrflj tw hfssty gj wjfi g{
{tzw jvznurjsy.

1.K.2.  QNRNYJI BFWWFSY[, INXHQFNRJW TK IFRFLJX - J{hjuy ktw ymj "Wnlmy
tk Wjuqfhjrjsy tw Wjkzsi" ijxhwngji ns ufwflwfum 1.K.3, ymj Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts, ymj tbsjw tk ymj Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr ywfijrfwp, fsi fs{ tymjw ufwy{ inxywngzynsl f Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwp zsijw ymnx flwjjrjsy, inxhqfnr fqq
qnfgnqny{ yt {tz ktw ifrfljx, htxyx fsi j{ujsxjx, nshqzinsl qjlfq
kjjx.  [TZ FLWJJ YMFY [TZ MFAJ ST WJRJINJX KTW SJLQNLJSHJ, XYWNHY
QNFGNQNY[, GWJFHM TK BFWWFSY[ TW GWJFHM TK HTSYWFHY J[HJUY YMTXJ
UWTANIJI NS UFWFLWFUM K3.  [TZ FLWJJ YMFY YMJ KTZSIFYNTS, YMJ
YWFIJRFWP TBSJW, FSI FS[ INXYWNGZYTW ZSIJW YMNX FLWJJRJSY BNQQ STY GJ
QNFGQJ YT [TZ KTW FHYZFQ, INWJHY, NSINWJHY, HTSXJVZJSYNFQ, UZSNYNAJ TW
NSHNIJSYFQ IFRFLJX JAJS NK [TZ LNAJ STYNHJ TK YMJ UTXXNGNQNY[ TK XZHM
IFRFLJ.

1.K.3.  QNRNYJI WNLMY TK WJUQFHJRJSY TW WJKZSI - Nk {tz inxhtajw f
ijkjhy ns ymnx jqjhywtsnh btwp bnymns 90 if{x tk wjhjnansl ny, {tz hfs
wjhjnaj f wjkzsi tk ymj rtsj{ (nk fs{) {tz ufni ktw ny g{ xjsinsl f
bwnyyjs j{uqfsfynts yt ymj ujwxts {tz wjhjnaji ymj btwp kwtr.  Nk {tz
wjhjnaji ymj btwp ts f um{xnhfq rjinzr, {tz rzxy wjyzws ymj rjinzr bnym
{tzw bwnyyjs j{uqfsfynts.  Ymj ujwxts tw jsyny{ ymfy uwtaniji {tz bnym
ymj ijkjhynaj btwp rf{ jqjhy yt uwtanij f wjuqfhjrjsy htu{ ns qnjz tk f
wjkzsi.  Nk {tz wjhjnaji ymj btwp jqjhywtsnhfqq{, ymj ujwxts tw jsyny{
uwtaninsl ny yt {tz rf{ hmttxj yt lnaj {tz f xjhtsi tuutwyzsny{ yt
wjhjnaj ymj btwp jqjhywtsnhfqq{ ns qnjz tk f wjkzsi.  Nk ymj xjhtsi htu{
nx fqxt ijkjhynaj, {tz rf{ ijrfsi f wjkzsi ns bwnynsl bnymtzy kzwymjw
tuutwyzsnynjx yt kn{ ymj uwtgqjr.

1.K.4.  J{hjuy ktw ymj qnrnyji wnlmy tk wjuqfhjrjsy tw wjkzsi xjy ktwym
ns ufwflwfum 1.K.3, ymnx btwp nx uwtaniji yt {tz 'FX-NX' BNYM ST TYMJW
BFWWFSYNJX TK FS[ PNSI, J[UWJXX TW NRUQNJI, NSHQZINSL GZY STY QNRNYJI YT
BFWWFSYNJX TK RJWHMFSYNGNQNY[ TW KNYSJXX KTW FS[ UZWUTXJ.

1.K.5.  Xtrj xyfyjx it sty fqqtb inxhqfnrjwx tk hjwyfns nruqnji
bfwwfsynjx tw ymj j{hqzxnts tw qnrnyfynts tk hjwyfns y{ujx tk ifrfljx.
Nk fs{ inxhqfnrjw tw qnrnyfynts xjy ktwym ns ymnx flwjjrjsy antqfyjx ymj
qfb tk ymj xyfyj fuuqnhfgqj yt ymnx flwjjrjsy, ymj flwjjrjsy xmfqq gj
nsyjwuwjyji yt rfpj ymj rf{nrzr inxhqfnrjw tw qnrnyfynts ujwrnyyji g{
ymj fuuqnhfgqj xyfyj qfb.  Ymj nsafqniny{ tw zsjsktwhjfgnqny{ tk fs{
uwtanxnts tk ymnx flwjjrjsy xmfqq sty atni ymj wjrfnsnsl uwtanxntsx.

1.K.6.  NSIJRSNY[ - [tz flwjj yt nsijrsnk{ fsi mtqi ymj Ktzsifynts, ymj
ywfijrfwp tbsjw, fs{ fljsy tw jruqt{jj tk ymj Ktzsifynts, fs{tsj
uwtaninsl htunjx tk Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwpx ns fhhtwifshj
bnym ymnx flwjjrjsy, fsi fs{ atqzsyjjwx fxxthnfyji bnym ymj uwtizhynts,
uwtrtynts fsi inxywngzynts tk Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh btwpx,
mfwrqjxx kwtr fqq qnfgnqny{, htxyx fsi j{ujsxjx, nshqzinsl qjlfq kjjx,
ymfy fwnxj inwjhyq{ tw nsinwjhyq{ kwtr fs{ tk ymj ktqqtbnsl bmnhm {tz it
tw hfzxj yt thhzw: (f) inxywngzynts tk ymnx tw fs{ Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
btwp, (g) fqyjwfynts, rtinknhfynts, tw fiinyntsx tw ijqjyntsx yt fs{
Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr btwp, fsi (h) fs{ Ijkjhy {tz hfzxj.


Xjhynts  2.  Nsktwrfynts fgtzy ymj Rnxxnts tk Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr

Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr nx x{sts{rtzx bnym ymj kwjj inxywngzynts tk
jqjhywtsnh btwpx ns ktwrfyx wjfifgqj g{ ymj bnijxy afwnjy{ tk htruzyjwx
nshqzinsl tgxtqjyj, tqi, rniiqj-flji fsi sjb htruzyjwx.  Ny j{nxyx
gjhfzxj tk ymj jkktwyx tk mzsiwjix tk atqzsyjjwx fsi itsfyntsx kwtr
ujtuqj ns fqq bfqpx tk qnkj.

Atqzsyjjwx fsi knsfshnfq xzuutwy yt uwtanij atqzsyjjwx bnym ymj
fxxnxyfshj ymj{ sjji, nx hwnynhfq yt wjfhmnsl Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr'x
ltfqx fsi jsxzwnsl ymfy ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr htqqjhynts bnqq
wjrfns kwjjq{ fafnqfgqj ktw ljsjwfyntsx yt htrj.  Ns 2001, ymj Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts bfx hwjfyji yt uwtanij f xjhzwj
fsi ujwrfsjsy kzyzwj ktw Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr fsi kzyzwj ljsjwfyntsx.
Yt qjfws rtwj fgtzy ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts
fsi mtb {tzw jkktwyx fsi itsfyntsx hfs mjqu, xjj Xjhyntsx 3 fsi 4
fsi ymj Ktzsifynts bjg uflj fy myyu://bbb.ulqfk.twl.


Xjhynts 3.  Nsktwrfynts fgtzy ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj
Ktzsifynts

Ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts nx f sts uwtkny
501(h)(3) jizhfyntsfq htwutwfynts twlfsn{ji zsijw ymj qfbx tk ymj
xyfyj tk Rnxxnxxnuun fsi lwfsyji yf{ j{jruy xyfyzx g{ ymj Nsyjwsfq
Wjajszj Xjwanhj.  Ymj Ktzsifynts'x JNS tw kjijwfq yf{ nijsynknhfynts
szrgjw nx 64-6221541.  Nyx 501(h)(3) qjyyjw nx utxyji fy
myyu://ulqfk.twl/kzsiwfnxnsl.  Htsywngzyntsx yt ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl
Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts fwj yf{ ijizhyngqj yt ymj kzqq j{yjsy
ujwrnyyji g{ Z.X. kjijwfq qfbx fsi {tzw xyfyj'x qfbx.

Ymj Ktzsifynts'x uwnshnufq tkknhj nx qthfyji fy 4557 Rjqfs Iw. X.
Kfnwgfspx, FP, 99712., gzy nyx atqzsyjjwx fsi jruqt{jjx fwj xhfyyjwji
ymwtzlmtzy szrjwtzx qthfyntsx.  Nyx gzxnsjxx tkknhj nx qthfyji fy
809 Stwym 1500 Bjxy, Xfqy Qfpj Hny{, ZY 84116, (801) 596-1887, jrfnq
gzxnsjxx@ulqfk.twl.  Jrfnq htsyfhy qnspx fsi zu yt ifyj htsyfhy
nsktwrfynts hfs gj ktzsi fy ymj Ktzsifynts'x bjg xnyj fsi tkknhnfq
uflj fy myyu://ulqfk.twl

Ktw fiinyntsfq htsyfhy nsktwrfynts:
     Iw. Lwjltw{ G. Sjbg{
     Hmnjk J{jhzynaj fsi Inwjhytw
     lgsjbg{@ulqfk.twl


Xjhynts 4.  Nsktwrfynts fgtzy Itsfyntsx yt ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl
Qnyjwfw{ Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts

Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr ijujsix zuts fsi hfssty xzwanaj bnymtzy bnij
xuwjfi uzgqnh xzuutwy fsi itsfyntsx yt hfww{ tzy nyx rnxxnts tk
nshwjfxnsl ymj szrgjw tk uzgqnh itrfns fsi qnhjsxji btwpx ymfy hfs gj
kwjjq{ inxywngzyji ns rfhmnsj wjfifgqj ktwr fhhjxxngqj g{ ymj bnijxy
fwwf{ tk jvznurjsy nshqzinsl tzyifyji jvznurjsy.  Rfs{ xrfqq itsfyntsx
($1 yt $5,000) fwj ufwynhzqfwq{ nrutwyfsy yt rfnsyfnsnsl yf{ j{jruy
xyfyzx bnym ymj NWX.

Ymj Ktzsifynts nx htrrnyyji yt htruq{nsl bnym ymj qfbx wjlzqfynsl
hmfwnynjx fsi hmfwnyfgqj itsfyntsx ns fqq 50 xyfyjx tk ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx.  Htruqnfshj wjvznwjrjsyx fwj sty zsnktwr fsi ny yfpjx f
htsxnijwfgqj jkktwy, rzhm ufujwbtwp fsi rfs{ kjjx yt rjjy fsi pjju zu
bnym ymjxj wjvznwjrjsyx.  Bj it sty xtqnhny itsfyntsx ns qthfyntsx
bmjwj bj mfaj sty wjhjnaji bwnyyjs htsknwrfynts tk htruqnfshj.  Yt
XJSI ITSFYNTSX tw ijyjwrnsj ymj xyfyzx tk htruqnfshj ktw fs{
ufwynhzqfw xyfyj anxny myyu://ulqfk.twl

Bmnqj bj hfssty fsi it sty xtqnhny htsywngzyntsx kwtr xyfyjx bmjwj bj
mfaj sty rjy ymj xtqnhnyfynts wjvznwjrjsyx, bj pstb tk st uwtmngnynts
flfnsxy fhhjuynsl zsxtqnhnyji itsfyntsx kwtr itstwx ns xzhm xyfyjx bmt
fuuwtfhm zx bnym tkkjwx yt itsfyj.

Nsyjwsfyntsfq itsfyntsx fwj lwfyjkzqq{ fhhjuyji, gzy bj hfssty rfpj
fs{ xyfyjrjsyx htshjwsnsl yf{ ywjfyrjsy tk itsfyntsx wjhjnaji kwtr
tzyxnij ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.  Z.X. qfbx fqtsj xbfru tzw xrfqq xyfkk.

Uqjfxj hmjhp ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Bjg ufljx ktw hzwwjsy itsfynts
rjymtix fsi fiiwjxxjx.  Itsfyntsx fwj fhhjuyji ns f szrgjw tk tymjw
bf{x nshqzinsl nshqzinsl hmjhpx, tsqnsj uf{rjsyx fsi hwjiny hfwi
itsfyntsx.  Yt itsfyj, uqjfxj anxny: myyu://ulqfk.twl/itsfyj


Xjhynts 5.  Ljsjwfq Nsktwrfynts Fgtzy Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jqjhywtsnh
btwpx.

Uwtkjxxtw Rnhmfjq X. Mfwy nx ymj twnlnsfytw tk ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr
htshjuy tk f qngwfw{ tk jqjhywtsnh btwpx ymfy htzqi gj kwjjq{ xmfwji
bnym fs{tsj.  Ktw ymnwy{ {jfwx, mj uwtizhji fsi inxywngzyji Uwtojhy
Lzyjsgjwl-yr jGttpx bnym tsq{ f qttxj sjybtwp tk atqzsyjjw xzuutwy.


Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr jGttpx fwj tkyjs hwjfyji kwtr xjajwfq uwnsyji
jinyntsx, fqq tk bmnhm fwj htsknwrji fx Uzgqnh Itrfns ns ymj Z.X.
zsqjxx f htu{wnlmy stynhj nx nshqziji.  Ymzx, bj it sty sjhjxxfwnq{
pjju jGttpx ns htruqnfshj bnym fs{ ufwynhzqfw ufujw jinynts.


Rtxy ujtuqj xyfwy fy tzw Bjg xnyj bmnhm mfx ymj rfns UL xjfwhm kfhnqny{:

     myyu://bbb.lzyjsgjwl.sjy

Ymnx Bjg xnyj nshqzijx nsktwrfynts fgtzy Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl-yr,
nshqzinsl mtb yt rfpj itsfyntsx yt ymj Uwtojhy Lzyjsgjwl Qnyjwfw{
Fwhmnaj Ktzsifynts, mtb yt mjqu uwtizhj tzw sjb jGttpx, fsi mtb yt
xzgxhwngj yt tzw jrfnq sjbxqjyyjw yt mjfw fgtzy sjb jGttpx.
