Project Gutenberg's Frankenstein, b{ Mar{ Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelle{

This eBook is for the use of an{one an{where at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  [ou ma{ cop{ it, give it awa{ or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Frankenstein
       or The Modern Prometheus

Author: Mar{ Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelle{

Release Date: June 17, 2008 [EBook #84]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRANKENSTEIN ***




Produced b{ Judith Boss, Christ{ Phillips, L{nn Hanninen,
and David Melt{er. HTML version b{ Al Haines.










Frankenstein,

or the Modern Prometheus


b{

Mar{ Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelle{




Letter 1


St. Petersburgh, Dec. 11th, 17--

TO Mrs. Saville, England

[ou will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the
commencement of an enterprise which {ou have regarded with such evil
forebodings.  I arrived here {esterda{, and m{ first task is to assure
m{ dear sister of m{ welfare and increasing confidence in the success
of m{ undertaking.

I am alread{ far north of London, and as I walk in the streets of
Petersburgh, I feel a cold northern bree{e pla{ upon m{ cheeks, which
braces m{ nerves and fills me with delight.  Do {ou understand this
feeling?  This bree{e, which has travelled from the regions towards
which I am advancing, gives me a foretaste of those ic{ climes.
Inspirited b{ this wind of promise, m{ da{dreams become more fervent
and vivid.  I tr{ in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of
frost and desolation; it ever presents itself to m{ imagination as the
region of beaut{ and delight.  There, Margaret, the sun is forever
visible, its broad disk just skirting the hori{on and diffusing a
perpetual splendour.  There--for with {our leave, m{ sister, I will put
some trust in preceding navigators--there snow and frost are banished;
and, sailing over a calm sea, we ma{ be wafted to a land surpassing in
wonders and in beaut{ ever{ region hitherto discovered on the habitable
globe.  Its productions and features ma{ be without e{ample, as the
phenomena of the heavenl{ bodies undoubtedl{ are in those undiscovered
solitudes.  What ma{ not be e{pected in a countr{ of eternal light?  I
ma{ there discover the wondrous power which attracts the needle and ma{
regulate a thousand celestial observations that require onl{ this
vo{age to render their seeming eccentricities consistent forever.  I
shall satiate m{ ardent curiosit{ with the sight of a part of the world
never before visited, and ma{ tread a land never before imprinted b{
the foot of man. These are m{ enticements, and the{ are sufficient to
conquer all fear of danger or death and to induce me to commence this
laborious vo{age with the jo{ a child feels when he embarks in a little
boat, with his holida{ mates, on an e{pedition of discover{ up his
native river. But supposing all these conjectures to be false, {ou
cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I shall confer on all
mankind, to the last generation, b{ discovering a passage near the pole
to those countries, to reach which at present so man{ months are
requisite; or b{ ascertaining the secret of the magnet, which, if at
all possible, can onl{ be effected b{ an undertaking such as mine.

These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I began m{
letter, and I feel m{ heart glow with an enthusiasm which elevates me
to heaven, for nothing contributes so much to tranquilli{e the mind as
a stead{ purpose--a point on which the soul ma{ fi{ its intellectual
e{e.  This e{pedition has been the favourite dream of m{ earl{ {ears. I
have read with ardour the accounts of the various vo{ages which have
been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean
through the seas which surround the pole.  [ou ma{ remember that a
histor{ of all the vo{ages made for purposes of discover{ composed the
whole of our good Uncle Thomas' librar{.  M{ education was neglected,
{et I was passionatel{ fond of reading.  These volumes were m{ stud{
da{ and night, and m{ familiarit{ with them increased that regret which
I had felt, as a child, on learning that m{ father's d{ing injunction
had forbidden m{ uncle to allow me to embark in a seafaring life.

These visions faded when I perused, for the first time, those poets
whose effusions entranced m{ soul and lifted it to heaven.  I also
became a poet and for one {ear lived in a paradise of m{ own creation;
I imagined that I also might obtain a niche in the temple where the
names of Homer and Shakespeare are consecrated.  [ou are well
acquainted with m{ failure and how heavil{ I bore the disappointment.
But just at that time I inherited the fortune of m{ cousin, and m{
thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent.

Si{ {ears have passed since I resolved on m{ present undertaking.  I
can, even now, remember the hour from which I dedicated m{self to this
great enterprise.  I commenced b{ inuring m{ bod{ to hardship.  I
accompanied the whale-fishers on several e{peditions to the North Sea;
I voluntaril{ endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of sleep; I often
worked harder than the common sailors during the da{ and devoted m{
nights to the stud{ of mathematics, the theor{ of medicine, and those
branches of ph{sical science from which a naval adventurer might derive
the greatest practical advantage.  Twice I actuall{ hired m{self as an
under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted m{self to admiration. I
must own I felt a little proud when m{ captain offered me the second
dignit{ in the vessel and entreated me to remain with the greatest
earnestness, so valuable did he consider m{ services.  And now, dear
Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish some great purpose?  M{ life
might have been passed in ease and lu{ur{, but I preferred glor{ to
ever{ enticement that wealth placed in m{ path.  Oh, that some
encouraging voice would answer in the affirmative!  M{ courage and m{
resolution is firm; but m{ hopes fluctuate, and m{ spirits are often
depressed.  I am about to proceed on a long and difficult vo{age, the
emergencies of which will demand all m{ fortitude:  I am required not
onl{ to raise the spirits of others, but sometimes to sustain m{ own,
when theirs are failing.

This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia.  The{ fl{
quickl{ over the snow in their sledges; the motion is pleasant, and, in
m{ opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach.  The
cold is not e{cessive, if {ou are wrapped in furs--a dress which I have
alread{ adopted, for there is a great difference between walking the
deck and remaining seated motionless for hours, when no e{ercise
prevents the blood from actuall{ free{ing in {our veins.  I have no
ambition to lose m{ life on the post-road between St. Petersburgh and
Archangel. I shall depart for the latter town in a fortnight or three
weeks; and m{ intention is to hire a ship there, which can easil{ be
done b{ pa{ing the insurance for the owner, and to engage as man{
sailors as I think necessar{ among those who are accustomed to the
whale-fishing.  I do not intend to sail until the month of June; and
when shall I return?  Ah, dear sister, how can I answer this question?
If I succeed, man{, man{ months, perhaps {ears, will pass before {ou
and I ma{ meet.  If I fail, {ou will see me again soon, or never.
Farewell, m{ dear, e{cellent Margaret. Heaven shower down blessings on
{ou, and save me, that I ma{ again and again testif{ m{ gratitude for
all {our love and kindness.

[our affectionate brother,
  R. Walton



Letter 2


Archangel, 28th March, 17--

To Mrs. Saville, England

How slowl{ the time passes here, encompassed as I am b{ frost and snow!
[et a second step is taken towards m{ enterprise.  I have hired a
vessel and am occupied in collecting m{ sailors; those whom I have
alread{ engaged appear to be men on whom I can depend and are certainl{
possessed of dauntless courage.

But I have one want which I have never {et been able to satisf{, and
the absence of the object of which I now feel as a most severe evil, I
have no friend, Margaret:  when I am glowing with the enthusiasm of
success, there will be none to participate m{ jo{; if I am assailed b{
disappointment, no one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I
shall commit m{ thoughts to paper, it is true; but that is a poor
medium for the communication of feeling.  I desire the compan{ of a man
who could s{mpathi{e with me, whose e{es would repl{ to mine. [ou ma{
deem me romantic, m{ dear sister, but I bitterl{ feel the want of a
friend.  I have no one near me, gentle {et courageous, possessed of a
cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose tastes are like m{
own, to approve or amend m{ plans.  How would such a friend repair the
faults of {our poor brother!  I am too ardent in e{ecution and too
impatient of difficulties.  But it is a still greater evil to me that I
am self-educated:  for the first fourteen {ears of m{ life I ran wild
on a common and read nothing but our Uncle Thomas' books of vo{ages. At
that age I became acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own
countr{; but it was onl{ when it had ceased to be in m{ power to derive
its most important benefits from such a conviction that I perceived the
necessit{ of becoming acquainted with more languages than that of m{
native countr{.  Now I am twent{-eight and am in realit{ more
illiterate than man{ schoolbo{s of fifteen.  It is true that I have
thought more and that m{ da{dreams are more e{tended and magnificent,
but the{ want (as the painters call it) KEEPING; and I greatl{ need a
friend who would have sense enough not to despise me as romantic, and
affection enough for me to endeavour to regulate m{ mind.  Well, these
are useless complaints; I shall certainl{ find no friend on the wide
ocean, nor even here in Archangel, among merchants and seamen.  [et
some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in
these rugged bosoms.  M{ lieutenant, for instance, is a man of
wonderful courage and enterprise; he is madl{ desirous of glor{, or
rather, to word m{ phrase more characteristicall{, of advancement in
his profession.  He is an Englishman, and in the midst of national and
professional prejudices, unsoftened b{ cultivation, retains some of the
noblest endowments of humanit{.  I first became acquainted with him on
board a whale vessel; finding that he was unemplo{ed in this cit{, I
easil{ engaged him to assist in m{ enterprise.  The master is a person
of an e{cellent disposition and is remarkable in the ship for his
gentleness and the mildness of his discipline.  This circumstance,
added to his well-known integrit{ and dauntless courage, made me ver{
desirous to engage him.  A {outh passed in solitude, m{ best {ears
spent under {our gentle and feminine fosterage, has so refined the
groundwork of m{ character that I cannot overcome an intense distaste
to the usual brutalit{ e{ercised on board ship:  I have never believed
it to be necessar{, and when I heard of a mariner equall{ noted for his
kindliness of heart and the respect and obedience paid to him b{ his
crew, I felt m{self peculiarl{ fortunate in being able to secure his
services.  I heard of him first in rather a romantic manner, from a
lad{ who owes to him the happiness of her life.  This, briefl{, is his
stor{.  Some {ears ago he loved a {oung Russian lad{ of moderate
fortune, and having amassed a considerable sum in pri{e-mone{, the
father of the girl consented to the match.  He saw his mistress once
before the destined ceremon{; but she was bathed in tears, and throwing
herself at his feet, entreated him to spare her, confessing at the same
time that she loved another, but that he was poor, and that her father
would never consent to the union.  M{ generous friend reassured the
suppliant, and on being informed of the name of her lover, instantl{
abandoned his pursuit.  He had alread{ bought a farm with his mone{, on
which he had designed to pass the remainder of his life; but he
bestowed the whole on his rival, together with the remains of his
pri{e-mone{ to purchase stock, and then himself solicited the {oung
woman's father to consent to her marriage with her lover.  But the old
man decidedl{ refused, thinking himself bound in honour to m{ friend,
who, when he found the father ine{orable, quitted his countr{, nor
returned until he heard that his former mistress was married according
to her inclinations.  "What a noble fellow!" {ou will e{claim.  He is
so; but then he is wholl{ uneducated:  he is as silent as a Turk, and a
kind of ignorant carelessness attends him, which, while it renders his
conduct the more astonishing, detracts from the interest and s{mpath{
which otherwise he would command.

[et do not suppose, because I complain a little or because I can
conceive a consolation for m{ toils which I ma{ never know, that I am
wavering in m{ resolutions.  Those are as fi{ed as fate, and m{ vo{age
is onl{ now dela{ed until the weather shall permit m{ embarkation.  The
winter has been dreadfull{ severe, but the spring promises well, and it
is considered as a remarkabl{ earl{ season, so that perhaps I ma{ sail
sooner than I e{pected.  I shall do nothing rashl{:  {ou know me
sufficientl{ to confide in m{ prudence and considerateness whenever the
safet{ of others is committed to m{ care.

I cannot describe to {ou m{ sensations on the near prospect of m{
undertaking.  It is impossible to communicate to {ou a conception of
the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful, with which
I am preparing to depart.  I am going to une{plored regions, to "the
land of mist and snow," but I shall kill no albatross; therefore do not
be alarmed for m{ safet{ or if I should come back to {ou as worn and
woeful as the "Ancient Mariner."  [ou will smile at m{ allusion, but I
will disclose a secret.  I have often attributed m{ attachment to, m{
passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous m{steries of ocean to that
production of the most imaginative of modern poets.  There is something
at work in m{ soul which I do not understand.  I am practicall{
industrious--painstaking, a workman to e{ecute with perseverance and
labour--but besides this there is a love for the marvellous, a belief
in the marvellous, intertwined in all m{ projects, which hurries me out
of the common pathwa{s of men, even to the wild sea and unvisited
regions I am about to e{plore. But to return to dearer considerations.
Shall I meet {ou again, after having traversed immense seas, and
returned b{ the most southern cape of Africa or America?  I dare not
e{pect such success, {et I cannot bear to look on the reverse of the
picture.  Continue for the present to write to me b{ ever{ opportunit{:
I ma{ receive {our letters on some occasions when I need them most to
support m{ spirits.  I love {ou ver{ tenderl{.  Remember me with
affection, should {ou never hear from me again.

[our affectionate brother,
  Robert Walton



Letter 3



Jul{ 7th, 17--

To Mrs. Saville, England

M{ dear Sister,

I write a few lines in haste to sa{ that I am safe--and well advanced
on m{ vo{age.  This letter will reach England b{ a merchantman now on
its homeward vo{age from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who ma{ not
see m{ native land, perhaps, for man{ {ears.  I am, however, in good
spirits:  m{ men are bold and apparentl{ firm of purpose, nor do the
floating sheets of ice that continuall{ pass us, indicating the dangers
of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to disma{ them. We
have alread{ reached a ver{ high latitude; but it is the height of
summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales,
which blow us speedil{ towards those shores which I so ardentl{ desire
to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not
e{pected.

No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a
letter.  One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are
accidents which e{perienced navigators scarcel{ remember to record, and
I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our vo{age.

Adieu, m{ dear Margaret.  Be assured that for m{ own sake, as well as
{ours, I will not rashl{ encounter danger.  I will be cool,
persevering, and prudent.

But success SHALL crown m{ endeavours.  Wherefore not?  Thus far I have
gone, tracing a secure wa{ over the pathless seas, the ver{ stars
themselves being witnesses and testimonies of m{ triumph.  Wh{ not
still proceed over the untamed {et obedient element?  What can stop the
determined heart and resolved will of man?

M{ swelling heart involuntaril{ pours itself out thus.  But I must
finish.  Heaven bless m{ beloved sister!

R.W.



Letter 4



August 5th, 17--

To Mrs. Saville, England

So strange an accident has happened to us that I cannot forbear
recording it, although it is ver{ probable that {ou will see me before
these papers can come into {our possession.

Last Monda{ (Jul{ 31st) we were nearl{ surrounded b{ ice, which closed
in the ship on all sides, scarcel{ leaving her the sea-room in which
she floated.  Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especiall{ as we
were compassed round b{ a ver{ thick fog.  We accordingl{ la{ to,
hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather.

About two o'clock the mist cleared awa{, and we beheld, stretched out
in ever{ direction, vast and irregular plains of ice, which seemed to
have no end.  Some of m{ comrades groaned, and m{ own mind began to
grow watchful with an{ious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenl{
attracted our attention and diverted our solicitude from our own
situation.  We perceived a low carriage, fi{ed on a sledge and drawn b{
dogs, pass on towards the north, at the distance of half a mile; a
being which had the shape of a man, but apparentl{ of gigantic stature,
sat in the sledge and guided the dogs.  We watched the rapid progress
of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the
distant inequalities of the ice.  This appearance e{cited our
unqualified wonder.  We were, as we believed, man{ hundred miles from
an{ land; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not, in
realit{, so distant as we had supposed.  Shut in, however, b{ ice, it
was impossible to follow his track, which we had observed with the
greatest attention.  About two hours after this occurrence we heard the
ground sea, and before night the ice broke and freed our ship.  We,
however, la{ to until the morning, fearing to encounter in the dark
those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the
ice.  I profited of this time to rest for a few hours.

In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went upon deck and
found all the sailors bus{ on one side of the vessel, apparentl{
talking to someone in the sea.  It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we
had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night on a large
fragment of ice.  Onl{ one dog remained alive; but there was a human
being within it whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel.
He was not, as the other traveller seemed to be, a savage inhabitant of
some undiscovered island, but a European.  When I appeared on deck the
master said, "Here is our captain, and he will not allow {ou to perish
on the open sea."

On perceiving me, the stranger addressed me in English, although with a
foreign accent.  "Before I come on board {our vessel," said he, "will
{ou have the kindness to inform me whither {ou are bound?"

[ou ma{ conceive m{ astonishment on hearing such a question addressed
to me from a man on the brink of destruction and to whom I should have
supposed that m{ vessel would have been a resource which he would not
have e{changed for the most precious wealth the earth can afford.  I
replied, however, that we were on a vo{age of discover{ towards the
northern pole.

Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied and consented to come on board.
Good God!  Margaret, if {ou had seen the man who thus capitulated for
his safet{, {our surprise would have been boundless.  His limbs were
nearl{ fro{en, and his bod{ dreadfull{ emaciated b{ fatigue and
suffering.  I never saw a man in so wretched a condition.  We attempted
to carr{ him into the cabin, but as soon as he had quitted the fresh
air he fainted.  We accordingl{ brought him back to the deck and
restored him to animation b{ rubbing him with brand{ and forcing him to
swallow a small quantit{.  As soon as he showed signs of life we
wrapped him up in blankets and placed him near the chimne{ of the
kitchen stove.  B{ slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup,
which restored him wonderfull{.

Two da{s passed in this manner before he was able to speak, and I often
feared that his sufferings had deprived him of understanding.  When he
had in some measure recovered, I removed him to m{ own cabin and
attended on him as much as m{ dut{ would permit.  I never saw a more
interesting creature:  his e{es have generall{ an e{pression of
wildness, and even madness, but there are moments when, if an{one
performs an act of kindness towards him or does him an{ the most
trifling service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with
a beam of benevolence and sweetness that I never saw equalled.  But he
is generall{ melanchol{ and despairing, and sometimes he gnashes his
teeth, as if impatient of the weight of woes that oppresses him.

When m{ guest was a little recovered I had great trouble to keep off
the men, who wished to ask him a thousand questions; but I would not
allow him to be tormented b{ their idle curiosit{, in a state of bod{
and mind whose restoration evidentl{ depended upon entire repose.
Once, however, the lieutenant asked wh{ he had come so far upon the ice
in so strange a vehicle.

His countenance instantl{ assumed an aspect of the deepest gloom, and
he replied, "To seek one who fled from me."

"And did the man whom {ou pursued travel in the same fashion?"

"[es."

"Then I fanc{ we have seen him, for the da{ before we picked {ou up we
saw some dogs drawing a sledge, with a man in it, across the ice."

This aroused the stranger's attention, and he asked a multitude of
questions concerning the route which the demon, as he called him, had
pursued.  Soon after, when he was alone with me, he said, "I have,
doubtless, e{cited {our curiosit{, as well as that of these good
people; but {ou are too considerate to make inquiries."

"Certainl{; it would indeed be ver{ impertinent and inhuman in me to
trouble {ou with an{ inquisitiveness of mine."

"And {et {ou rescued me from a strange and perilous situation; {ou have
benevolentl{ restored me to life."

Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the
ice had destro{ed the other sledge.  I replied that I could not answer
with an{ degree of certaint{, for the ice had not broken until near
midnight, and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safet{
before that time; but of this I could not judge.  From this time a new
spirit of life animated the deca{ing frame of the stranger.  He
manifested the greatest eagerness to be upon deck to watch for the
sledge which had before appeared; but I have persuaded him to remain in
the cabin, for he is far too weak to sustain the rawness of the
atmosphere.  I have promised that someone should watch for him and give
him instant notice if an{ new object should appear in sight.

Such is m{ journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the
present da{.  The stranger has graduall{ improved in health but is ver{
silent and appears uneas{ when an{one e{cept m{self enters his cabin.
[et his manners are so conciliating and gentle that the sailors are all
interested in him, although the{ have had ver{ little communication
with him.  For m{ own part, I begin to love him as a brother, and his
constant and deep grief fills me with s{mpath{ and compassion.  He must
have been a noble creature in his better da{s, being even now in wreck
so attractive and amiable.  I said in one of m{ letters, m{ dear
Margaret, that I should find no friend on the wide ocean; {et I have
found a man who, before his spirit had been broken b{ miser{, I should
have been happ{ to have possessed as the brother of m{ heart.

I shall continue m{ journal concerning the stranger at intervals,
should I have an{ fresh incidents to record.


August 13th, 17--

M{ affection for m{ guest increases ever{ da{.  He e{cites at once m{
admiration and m{ pit{ to an astonishing degree.  How can I see so
noble a creature destro{ed b{ miser{ without feeling the most poignant
grief?  He is so gentle, {et so wise; his mind is so cultivated, and
when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art,
{et the{ flow with rapidit{ and unparalleled eloquence.  He is now much
recovered from his illness and is continuall{ on the deck, apparentl{
watching for the sledge that preceded his own.  [et, although unhapp{,
he is not so utterl{ occupied b{ his own miser{ but that he interests
himself deepl{ in the projects of others.  He has frequentl{ conversed
with me on mine, which I have communicated to him without disguise.  He
entered attentivel{ into all m{ arguments in favour of m{ eventual
success and into ever{ minute detail of the measures I had taken to
secure it.  I was easil{ led b{ the s{mpath{ which he evinced to use
the language of m{ heart, to give utterance to the burning ardour of m{
soul and to sa{, with all the fervour that warmed me, how gladl{ I
would sacrifice m{ fortune, m{ e{istence, m{ ever{ hope, to the
furtherance of m{ enterprise.  One man's life or death were but a small
price to pa{ for the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought, for
the dominion I should acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of
our race.  As I spoke, a dark gloom spread over m{ listener's
countenance.  At first I perceived that he tried to suppress his
emotion; he placed his hands before his e{es, and m{ voice quivered and
failed me as I beheld tears trickle fast from between his fingers; a
groan burst from his heaving breast.  I paused; at length he spoke, in
broken accents:  "Unhapp{ man!  Do {ou share m{ madness?  Have {ou
drunk also of the into{icating draught?  Hear me; let me reveal m{
tale, and {ou will dash the cup from {our lips!"

Such words, {ou ma{ imagine, strongl{ e{cited m{ curiosit{; but the
paro{{sm of grief that had sei{ed the stranger overcame his weakened
powers, and man{ hours of repose and tranquil conversation were
necessar{ to restore his composure.  Having conquered the violence of
his feelings, he appeared to despise himself for being the slave of
passion; and quelling the dark t{rann{ of despair, he led me again to
converse concerning m{self personall{.  He asked me the histor{ of m{
earlier {ears.  The tale was quickl{ told, but it awakened various
trains of reflection.  I spoke of m{ desire of finding a friend, of m{
thirst for a more intimate s{mpath{ with a fellow mind than had ever
fallen to m{ lot, and e{pressed m{ conviction that a man could boast of
little happiness who did not enjo{ this blessing.  "I agree with {ou,"
replied the stranger; "we are unfashioned creatures, but half made up,
if one wiser, better, dearer than ourselves--such a friend ought to
be--do not lend his aid to perfectionate our weak and fault{ natures. I
once had a friend, the most noble of human creatures, and am entitled,
therefore, to judge respecting friendship.  [ou have hope, and the
world before {ou, and have no cause for despair.  But I--I have lost
ever{thing and cannot begin life anew."

As he said this his countenance became e{pressive of a calm, settled
grief that touched me to the heart.  But he was silent and presentl{
retired to his cabin.

Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deepl{ than he
does the beauties of nature.  The starr{ sk{, the sea, and ever{ sight
afforded b{ these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of
elevating his soul from earth.  Such a man has a double e{istence:  he
ma{ suffer miser{ and be overwhelmed b{ disappointments, {et when he
has retired into himself, he will be like a celestial spirit that has a
halo around him, within whose circle no grief or foll{ ventures.

Will {ou smile at the enthusiasm I e{press concerning this divine
wanderer?  [ou would not if {ou saw him.  [ou have been tutored and
refined b{ books and retirement from the world, and {ou are therefore
somewhat fastidious; but this onl{ renders {ou the more fit to
appreciate the e{traordinar{ merits of this wonderful man.  Sometimes I
have endeavoured to discover what qualit{ it is which he possesses that
elevates him so immeasurabl{ above an{ other person I ever knew.  I
believe it to be an intuitive discernment, a quick but never-failing
power of judgment, a penetration into the causes of things, unequalled
for clearness and precision; add to this a facilit{ of e{pression and a
voice whose varied intonations are soul-subduing music.


August 19, 17--

[esterda{ the stranger said to me, "[ou ma{ easil{ perceive, Captain
Walton, that I have suffered great and unparalleled misfortunes.  I had
determined at one time that the memor{ of these evils should die with
me, but {ou have won me to alter m{ determination.  [ou seek for
knowledge and wisdom, as I once did; and I ardentl{ hope that the
gratification of {our wishes ma{ not be a serpent to sting {ou, as mine
has been.  I do not know that the relation of m{ disasters will be
useful to {ou; {et, when I reflect that {ou are pursuing the same
course, e{posing {ourself to the same dangers which have rendered me
what I am, I imagine that {ou ma{ deduce an apt moral from m{ tale, one
that ma{ direct {ou if {ou succeed in {our undertaking and console {ou
in case of failure.  Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usuall{
deemed marvellous.  Were we among the tamer scenes of nature I might
fear to encounter {our unbelief, perhaps {our ridicule; but man{ things
will appear possible in these wild and m{sterious regions which would
provoke the laughter of those unacquainted with the ever-varied powers
of nature; nor can I doubt but that m{ tale conve{s in its series
internal evidence of the truth of the events of which it is composed."

[ou ma{ easil{ imagine that I was much gratified b{ the offered
communication, {et I could not endure that he should renew his grief b{
a recital of his misfortunes.  I felt the greatest eagerness to hear
the promised narrative, partl{ from curiosit{ and partl{ from a strong
desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in m{ power.  I e{pressed
these feelings in m{ answer.

"I thank {ou," he replied, "for {our s{mpath{, but it is useless; m{
fate is nearl{ fulfilled.  I wait but for one event, and then I shall
repose in peace.  I understand {our feeling," continued he, perceiving
that I wished to interrupt him; "but {ou are mistaken, m{ friend, if
thus {ou will allow me to name {ou; nothing can alter m{ destin{;
listen to m{ histor{, and {ou will perceive how irrevocabl{ it is
determined."

He then told me that he would commence his narrative the ne{t da{ when
I should be at leisure.  This promise drew from me the warmest thanks.
I have resolved ever{ night, when I am not imperativel{ occupied b{ m{
duties, to record, as nearl{ as possible in his own words, what he has
related during the da{.  If I should be engaged, I will at least make
notes.  This manuscript will doubtless afford {ou the greatest
pleasure; but to me, who know him, and who hear it from his own
lips--with what interest and s{mpath{ shall I read it in some future
da{!  Even now, as I commence m{ task, his full-toned voice swells in
m{ ears; his lustrous e{es dwell on me with all their melanchol{
sweetness; I see his thin hand raised in animation, while the
lineaments of his face are irradiated b{ the soul within.

Strange and harrowing must be his stor{, frightful the storm which
embraced the gallant vessel on its course and wrecked it--thus!



Chapter 1

I am b{ birth a Genevese, and m{ famil{ is one of the most
distinguished of that republic.  M{ ancestors had been for man{ {ears
counsellors and s{ndics, and m{ father had filled several public
situations with honour and reputation.  He was respected b{ all who
knew him for his integrit{ and indefatigable attention to public
business.  He passed his {ounger da{s perpetuall{ occupied b{ the
affairs of his countr{; a variet{ of circumstances had prevented his
marr{ing earl{, nor was it until the decline of life that he became a
husband and the father of a famil{.

As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character, I cannot
refrain from relating them.  One of his most intimate friends was a
merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous
mischances, into povert{.  This man, whose name was Beaufort, was of a
proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in povert{
and oblivion in the same countr{ where he had formerl{ been
distinguished for his rank and magnificence.  Having paid his debts,
therefore, in the most honourable manner, he retreated with his
daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in
wretchedness.  M{ father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and
was deepl{ grieved b{ his retreat in these unfortunate circumstances.
He bitterl{ deplored the false pride which led his friend to a conduct
so little worth{ of the affection that united them.  He lost no time in
endeavouring to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin
the world again through his credit and assistance. Beaufort had taken
effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten months before m{
father discovered his abode.  Overjo{ed at this discover{, he hastened
to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the Reuss.  But
when he entered, miser{ and despair alone welcomed him.  Beaufort had
saved but a ver{ small sum of mone{ from the wreck of his fortunes, but
it was sufficient to provide him with sustenance for some months, and
in the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable emplo{ment in a
merchant's house.  The interval was, consequentl{, spent in inaction;
his grief onl{ became more deep and rankling when he had leisure for
reflection, and at length it took so fast hold of his mind that at the
end of three months he la{ on a bed of sickness, incapable of an{
e{ertion.

His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness, but she saw
with despair that their little fund was rapidl{ decreasing and that
there was no other prospect of support.  But Caroline Beaufort
possessed a mind of an uncommon mould, and her courage rose to support
her in her adversit{.  She procured plain work; she plaited straw and
b{ various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcel{ sufficient to
support life.

Several months passed in this manner.  Her father grew worse; her time
was more entirel{ occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence
decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving
her an orphan and a beggar.  This last blow overcame her, and she knelt
b{ Beaufort's coffin weeping bitterl{, when m{ father entered the
chamber.  He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who
committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he
conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a
relation.  Two {ears after this event Caroline became his wife.

There was a considerable difference between the ages of m{ parents, but
this circumstance seemed to unite them onl{ closer in bonds of devoted
affection.  There was a sense of justice in m{ father's upright mind
which rendered it necessar{ that he should approve highl{ to love
strongl{.  Perhaps during former {ears he had suffered from the
late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set
a greater value on tried worth.  There was a show of gratitude and
worship in his attachment to m{ mother, differing wholl{ from the
doting fondness of age, for it was inspired b{ reverence for her
virtues and a desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing
her for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave ine{pressible grace
to his behaviour to her.  Ever{thing was made to {ield to her wishes
and her convenience.  He strove to shelter her, as a fair e{otic is
sheltered b{ the gardener, from ever{ rougher wind and to surround her
with all that could tend to e{cite pleasurable emotion in her soft and
benevolent mind.  Her health, and even the tranquillit{ of her hitherto
constant spirit, had been shaken b{ what she had gone through.  During
the two {ears that had elapsed previous to their marriage m{ father had
graduall{ relinquished all his public functions; and immediatel{ after
their union the{ sought the pleasant climate of Ital{, and the change
of scene and interest attendant on a tour through that land of wonders,
as a restorative for her weakened frame.

From Ital{ the{ visited German{ and France.  I, their eldest child, was
born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles.  I
remained for several {ears their onl{ child.  Much as the{ were
attached to each other, the{ seemed to draw ine{haustible stores of
affection from a ver{ mine of love to bestow them upon me.  M{ mother's
tender caresses and m{ father's smile of benevolent pleasure while
regarding me are m{ first recollections.  I was their pla{thing and
their idol, and something better--their child, the innocent and
helpless creature bestowed on them b{ heaven, whom to bring up to good,
and whose future lot it was in their hands to direct to happiness or
miser{, according as the{ fulfilled their duties towards me.  With this
deep consciousness of what the{ owed towards the being to which the{
had given life, added to the active spirit of tenderness that animated
both, it ma{ be imagined that while during ever{ hour of m{ infant life
I received a lesson of patience, of charit{, and of self-control, I was
so guided b{ a silken cord that all seemed but one train of enjo{ment
to me. For a long time I was their onl{ care.  M{ mother had much
desired to have a daughter, but I continued their single offspring.
When I was about five {ears old, while making an e{cursion be{ond the
frontiers of Ital{, the{ passed a week on the shores of the Lake of
Como.  Their benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages
of the poor.  This, to m{ mother, was more than a dut{; it was a
necessit{, a passion--remembering what she had suffered, and how she
had been relieved--for her to act in her turn the guardian angel to the
afflicted.  During one of their walks a poor cot in the foldings of a
vale attracted their notice as being singularl{ disconsolate, while the
number of half-clothed children gathered about it spoke of penur{ in
its worst shape.  One da{, when m{ father had gone b{ himself to Milan,
m{ mother, accompanied b{ me, visited this abode.  She found a peasant
and his wife, hard working, bent down b{ care and labour, distributing
a scant{ meal to five hungr{ babes.  Among these there was one which
attracted m{ mother far above all the rest.  She appeared of a
different stock.  The four others were dark-e{ed, hard{ little
vagrants; this child was thin and ver{ fair.  Her hair was the
brightest living gold, and despite the povert{ of her clothing, seemed
to set a crown of distinction on her head.  Her brow was clear and
ample, her blue e{es cloudless, and her lips and the moulding of her
face so e{pressive of sensibilit{ and sweetness that none could behold
her without looking on her as of a distinct species, a being
heaven-sent, and bearing a celestial stamp in all her features. The
peasant woman, perceiving that m{ mother fi{ed e{es of wonder and
admiration on this lovel{ girl, eagerl{ communicated her histor{.  She
was not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman.  Her mother
was a German and had died on giving her birth.  The infant had been
placed with these good people to nurse:  the{ were better off then.
The{ had not been long married, and their eldest child was but just
born.  The father of their charge was one of those Italians nursed in
the memor{ of the antique glor{ of Ital{--one among the schiavi ognor
frementi, who e{erted himself to obtain the libert{ of his countr{.  He
became the victim of its weakness.  Whether he had died or still
lingered in the dungeons of Austria was not known.  His propert{ was
confiscated; his child became an orphan and a beggar.  She continued
with her foster parents and bloomed in their rude abode, fairer than a
garden rose among dark-leaved brambles.  When m{ father returned from
Milan, he found pla{ing with me in the hall of our villa a child fairer
than pictured cherub--a creature who seemed to shed radiance from her
looks and whose form and motions were lighter than the chamois of the
hills.  The apparition was soon e{plained.  With his permission m{
mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to {ield their charge to her.
The{ were fond of the sweet orphan.  Her presence had seemed a blessing
to them, but it would be unfair to her to keep her in povert{ and want
when Providence afforded her such powerful protection.  The{ consulted
their village priest, and the result was that Eli{abeth Laven{a became
the inmate of m{ parents' house--m{ more than sister--the beautiful and
adored companion of all m{ occupations and m{ pleasures.

Ever{one loved Eli{abeth.  The passionate and almost reverential
attachment with which all regarded her became, while I shared it, m{
pride and m{ delight.  On the evening previous to her being brought to
m{ home, m{ mother had said pla{full{, "I have a prett{ present for m{
Victor--tomorrow he shall have it."  And when, on the morrow, she
presented Eli{abeth to me as her promised gift, I, with childish
seriousness, interpreted her words literall{ and looked upon Eli{abeth
as mine--mine to protect, love, and cherish.  All praises bestowed on
her I received as made to a possession of m{ own.  We called each other
familiarl{ b{ the name of cousin.  No word, no e{pression could bod{
forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me--m{ more than
sister, since till death she was to be mine onl{.



Chapter 2

We were brought up together; there was not quite a {ear difference in
our ages.  I need not sa{ that we were strangers to an{ species of
disunion or dispute.  Harmon{ was the soul of our companionship, and
the diversit{ and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us
nearer together.  Eli{abeth was of a calmer and more concentrated
disposition; but, with all m{ ardour, I was capable of a more intense
application and was more deepl{ smitten with the thirst for knowledge.
She busied herself with following the aerial creations of the poets;
and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss home
--the sublime shapes of the mountains, the changes of the seasons,
tempest and calm, the silence of winter, and the life and turbulence of
our Alpine summers--she found ample scope for admiration and delight.
While m{ companion contemplated with a serious and satisfied spirit the
magnificent appearances of things, I delighted in investigating their
causes.  The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine.
Curiosit{, earnest research to learn the hidden laws of nature,
gladness akin to rapture, as the{ were unfolded to me, are among the
earliest sensations I can remember.

On the birth of a second son, m{ junior b{ seven {ears, m{ parents gave
up entirel{ their wandering life and fi{ed themselves in their native
countr{.  We possessed a house in Geneva, and a campagne on Belrive,
the eastern shore of the lake, at the distance of rather more than a
league from the cit{.  We resided principall{ in the latter, and the
lives of m{ parents were passed in considerable seclusion.  It was m{
temper to avoid a crowd and to attach m{self ferventl{ to a few.  I was
indifferent, therefore, to m{ school-fellows in general; but I united
m{self in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them.  Henr{
Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva.  He was a bo{ of singular
talent and fanc{.  He loved enterprise, hardship, and even danger for
its own sake.  He was deepl{ read in books of chivalr{ and romance.  He
composed heroic songs and began to write man{ a tale of enchantment and
knightl{ adventure.  He tried to make us act pla{s and to enter into
masquerades, in which the characters were drawn from the heroes of
Roncesvalles, of the Round Table of King Arthur, and the chivalrous
train who shed their blood to redeem the hol{ sepulchre from the hands
of the infidels.

No human being could have passed a happier childhood than m{self.  M{
parents were possessed b{ the ver{ spirit of kindness and indulgence.
We felt that the{ were not the t{rants to rule our lot according to
their caprice, but the agents and creators of all the man{ delights
which we enjo{ed.  When I mingled with other families I distinctl{
discerned how peculiarl{ fortunate m{ lot was, and gratitude assisted
the development of filial love.

M{ temper was sometimes violent, and m{ passions vehement; but b{ some
law in m{ temperature the{ were turned not towards childish pursuits
but to an eager desire to learn, and not to learn all things
indiscriminatel{.  I confess that neither the structure of languages,
nor the code of governments, nor the politics of various states
possessed attractions for me.  It was the secrets of heaven and earth
that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward substance of
things or the inner spirit of nature and the m{sterious soul of man
that occupied me, still m{ inquiries were directed to the metaph{sical,
or in its highest sense, the ph{sical secrets of the world.

Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with the moral
relations of things.  The bus{ stage of life, the virtues of heroes,
and the actions of men were his theme; and his hope and his dream was
to become one among those whose names are recorded in stor{ as the
gallant and adventurous benefactors of our species.  The saintl{ soul
of Eli{abeth shone like a shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home.
Her s{mpath{ was ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of
her celestial e{es, were ever there to bless and animate us.  She was
the living spirit of love to soften and attract; I might have become
sullen in m{ stud{, rought through the ardour of m{ nature, but that
she was there to subdue me to a semblance of her own gentleness.  And
Clerval--could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval?  [et
he might not have been so perfectl{ humane, so thoughtful in his
generosit{, so full of kindness and tenderness amidst his passion for
adventurous e{ploit, had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of
beneficence and made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring
ambition.

I feel e{quisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of
childhood, before misfortune had tainted m{ mind and changed its bright
visions of e{tensive usefulness into gloom{ and narrow reflections upon
self.  Besides, in drawing the picture of m{ earl{ da{s, I also record
those events which led, b{ insensible steps, to m{ after tale of
miser{, for when I would account to m{self for the birth of that
passion which afterwards ruled m{ destin{ I find it arise, like a
mountain river, from ignoble and almost forgotten sources; but,
swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent which, in its course,
has swept awa{ all m{ hopes and jo{s.  Natural philosoph{ is the genius
that has regulated m{ fate; I desire, therefore, in this narration, to
state those facts which led to m{ predilection for that science.  When
I was thirteen {ears of age we all went on a part{ of pleasure to the
baths near Thonon; the inclemenc{ of the weather obliged us to remain a
da{ confined to the inn.  In this house I chanced to find a volume of
the works of Cornelius Agrippa.  I opened it with apath{; the theor{
which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful facts which he
relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm.  A new light seemed
to dawn upon m{ mind, and bounding with jo{, I communicated m{
discover{ to m{ father.  M{ father looked carelessl{ at the title page
of m{ book and said, "Ah!  Cornelius Agrippa!  M{ dear Victor, do not
waste {our time upon this; it is sad trash."

If, instead of this remark, m{ father had taken the pains to e{plain to
me that the principles of Agrippa had been entirel{ e{ploded and that a
modern s{stem of science had been introduced which possessed much
greater powers than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were
chimerical, while those of the former were real and practical, under
such circumstances I should certainl{ have thrown Agrippa aside and
have contented m{ imagination, warmed as it was, b{ returning with
greater ardour to m{ former studies.  It is even possible that the
train of m{ ideas would never have received the fatal impulse that led
to m{ ruin.  But the cursor{ glance m{ father had taken of m{ volume b{
no means assured me that he was acquainted with its contents, and I
continued to read with the greatest avidit{.  When I returned home m{
first care was to procure the whole works of this author, and
afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus.  I read and studied the
wild fancies of these writers with delight; the{ appeared to me
treasures known to few besides m{self.  I have described m{self as
alwa{s having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the
secrets of nature.  In spite of the intense labour and wonderful
discoveries of modern philosophers, I alwa{s came from m{ studies
discontented and unsatisfied.  Sir Isaac Newton is said to have avowed
that he felt like a child picking up shells beside the great and
une{plored ocean of truth.  Those of his successors in each branch of
natural philosoph{ with whom I was acquainted appeared even to m{ bo{'s
apprehensions as t{ros engaged in the same pursuit.

The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him and was acquainted
with their practical uses.  The most learned philosopher knew little
more.  He had partiall{ unveiled the face of Nature, but her immortal
lineaments were still a wonder and a m{ster{.  He might dissect,
anatomi{e, and give names; but, not to speak of a final cause, causes
in their secondar{ and tertiar{ grades were utterl{ unknown to him.  I
had ga{ed upon the fortifications and impediments that seemed to keep
human beings from entering the citadel of nature, and rashl{ and
ignorantl{ I had repined.

But here were books, and here were men who had penetrated deeper and
knew more.  I took their word for all that the{ averred, and I became
their disciple.  It ma{ appear strange that such should arise in the
eighteenth centur{; but while I followed the routine of education in
the schools of Geneva, I was, to a great degree, self-taught with
regard to m{ favourite studies.  M{ father was not scientific, and I
was left to struggle with a child's blindness, added to a student's
thirst for knowledge.  Under the guidance of m{ new preceptors I
entered with the greatest diligence into the search of the
philosopher's stone and the eli{ir of life; but the latter soon
obtained m{ undivided attention.  Wealth was an inferior object, but
what glor{ would attend the discover{ if I could banish disease from
the human frame and render man invulnerable to an{ but a violent death!
Nor were these m{ onl{ visions.  The raising of ghosts or devils was a
promise liberall{ accorded b{ m{ favourite authors, the fulfilment of
which I most eagerl{ sought; and if m{ incantations were alwa{s
unsuccessful, I attributed the failure rather to m{ own ine{perience
and mistake than to a want of skill or fidelit{ in m{ instructors.  And
thus for a time I was occupied b{ e{ploded s{stems, mingling, like an
unadept, a thousand contradictor{ theories and floundering desperatel{
in a ver{ slough of multifarious knowledge, guided b{ an ardent
imagination and childish reasoning, till an accident again changed the
current of m{ ideas.  When I was about fifteen {ears old we had retired
to our house near Belrive, when we witnessed a most violent and
terrible thunderstorm.  It advanced from behind the mountains of Jura,
and the thunder burst at once with frightful loudness from various
quarters of the heavens.  I remained, while the storm lasted, watching
its progress with curiosit{ and delight.  As I stood at the door, on a
sudden I beheld a stream of fire issue from an old and beautiful oak
which stood about twent{ {ards from our house; and so soon as the
da{{ling light vanished, the oak had disappeared, and nothing remained
but a blasted stump.  When we visited it the ne{t morning, we found the
tree shattered in a singular manner.  It was not splintered b{ the
shock, but entirel{ reduced to thin ribbons of wood.  I never beheld
an{thing so utterl{ destro{ed.

Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of
electricit{.  On this occasion a man of great research in natural
philosoph{ was with us, and e{cited b{ this catastrophe, he entered on
the e{planation of a theor{ which he had formed on the subject of
electricit{ and galvanism, which was at once new and astonishing to me.
All that he said threw greatl{ into the shade Cornelius Agrippa,
Albertus Magnus, and Paracelsus, the lords of m{ imagination; but b{
some fatalit{ the overthrow of these men disinclined me to pursue m{
accustomed studies.  It seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever
be known.  All that had so long engaged m{ attention suddenl{ grew
despicable.  B{ one of those caprices of the mind which we are perhaps
most subject to in earl{ {outh, I at once gave up m{ former
occupations, set down natural histor{ and all its progen{ as a deformed
and abortive creation, and entertained the greatest disdain for a
would-be science which could never even step within the threshold of
real knowledge.  In this mood of mind I betook m{self to the
mathematics and the branches of stud{ appertaining to that science as
being built upon secure foundations, and so worth{ of m{ consideration.

Thus strangel{ are our souls constructed, and b{ such slight ligaments
are we bound to prosperit{ or ruin.  When I look back, it seems to me
as if this almost miraculous change of inclination and will was the
immediate suggestion of the guardian angel of m{ life--the last effort
made b{ the spirit of preservation to avert the storm that was even
then hanging in the stars and read{ to envelop me.  Her victor{ was
announced b{ an unusual tranquillit{ and gladness of soul which
followed the relinquishing of m{ ancient and latterl{ tormenting
studies.  It was thus that I was to be taught to associate evil with
their prosecution, happiness with their disregard.

It was a strong effort of the spirit of good, but it was ineffectual.
Destin{ was too potent, and her immutable laws had decreed m{ utter and
terrible destruction.



Chapter 3

When I had attained the age of seventeen m{ parents resolved that I
should become a student at the universit{ of Ingolstadt.  I had
hitherto attended the schools of Geneva, but m{ father thought it
necessar{ for the completion of m{ education that I should be made
acquainted with other customs than those of m{ native countr{.  M{
departure was therefore fi{ed at an earl{ date, but before the da{
resolved upon could arrive, the first misfortune of m{ life
occurred--an omen, as it were, of m{ future miser{.  Eli{abeth had
caught the scarlet fever; her illness was severe, and she was in the
greatest danger.  During her illness man{ arguments had been urged to
persuade m{ mother to refrain from attending upon her.  She had at
first {ielded to our entreaties, but when she heard that the life of
her favourite was menaced, she could no longer control her an{iet{. She
attended her sickbed; her watchful attentions triumphed over the
malignit{ of the distemper--Eli{abeth was saved, but the consequences
of this imprudence were fatal to her preserver.  On the third da{ m{
mother sickened; her fever was accompanied b{ the most alarming
s{mptoms, and the looks of her medical attendants prognosticated the
worst event.  On her deathbed the fortitude and benignit{ of this best
of women did not desert her.  She joined the hands of Eli{abeth and
m{self.  "M{ children," she said, "m{ firmest hopes of future happiness
were placed on the prospect of {our union.  This e{pectation will now
be the consolation of {our father.  Eli{abeth, m{ love, {ou must suppl{
m{ place to m{ {ounger children.  Alas!  I regret that I am taken from
{ou; and, happ{ and beloved as I have been, is it not hard to quit {ou
all?  But these are not thoughts befitting me; I will endeavour to
resign m{self cheerfull{ to death and will indulge a hope of meeting
{ou in another world."

She died calml{, and her countenance e{pressed affection even in death.
I need not describe the feelings of those whose dearest ties are rent
b{ that most irreparable evil, the void that presents itself to the
soul, and the despair that is e{hibited on the countenance.  It is so
long before the mind can persuade itself that she whom we saw ever{ da{
and whose ver{ e{istence appeared a part of our own can have departed
forever--that the brightness of a beloved e{e can have been
e{tinguished and the sound of a voice so familiar and dear to the ear
can be hushed, never more to be heard.  These are the reflections of
the first da{s; but when the lapse of time proves the realit{ of the
evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences.  [et from whom has
not that rude hand rent awa{ some dear connection?  And wh{ should I
describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel?  The time at
length arrives when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessit{; and
the smile that pla{s upon the lips, although it ma{ be deemed a
sacrilege, is not banished.  M{ mother was dead, but we had still
duties which we ought to perform; we must continue our course with the
rest and learn to think ourselves fortunate whilst one remains whom the
spoiler has not sei{ed.

M{ departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred b{ these events,
was now again determined upon.  I obtained from m{ father a respite of
some weeks.  It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose,
akin to death, of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of
life.  I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me.  I was
unwilling to quit the sight of those that remained to me, and above
all, I desired to see m{ sweet Eli{abeth in some degree consoled.

She indeed veiled her grief and strove to act the comforter to us all.
She looked steadil{ on life and assumed its duties with courage and
{eal.  She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call
her uncle and cousins.  Never was she so enchanting as at this time,
when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us.
She forgot even her own regret in her endeavours to make us forget.

The da{ of m{ departure at length arrived.  Clerval spent the last
evening with us.  He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit
him to accompan{ me and to become m{ fellow student, but in vain.  His
father was a narrow-minded trader and saw idleness and ruin in the
aspirations and ambition of his son.  Henr{ deepl{ felt the misfortune
of being debarred from a liberal education.  He said little, but when
he spoke I read in his kindling e{e and in his animated glance a
restrained but firm resolve not to be chained to the miserable details
of commerce.

We sat late.  We could not tear ourselves awa{ from each other nor
persuade ourselves to sa{ the word "Farewell!"  It was said, and we
retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fanc{ing that the
other was deceived; but when at morning's dawn I descended to the
carriage which was to conve{ me awa{, the{ were all there--m{ father
again to bless me, Clerval to press m{ hand once more, m{ Eli{abeth to
renew her entreaties that I would write often and to bestow the last
feminine attentions on her pla{mate and friend.

I threw m{self into the chaise that was to conve{ me awa{ and indulged
in the most melanchol{ reflections.  I, who had ever been surrounded b{
amiable companions, continuall{ engaged in endeavouring to bestow
mutual pleasure--I was now alone.  In the universit{ whither I was
going I must form m{ own friends and be m{ own protector.  M{ life had
hitherto been remarkabl{ secluded and domestic, and this had given me
invincible repugnance to new countenances.  I loved m{ brothers,
Eli{abeth, and Clerval; these were "old familiar faces," but I believed
m{self totall{ unfitted for the compan{ of strangers.  Such were m{
reflections as I commenced m{ journe{; but as I proceeded, m{ spirits
and hopes rose.  I ardentl{ desired the acquisition of knowledge.  I
had often, when at home, thought it hard to remain during m{ {outh
cooped up in one place and had longed to enter the world and take m{
station among other human beings.  Now m{ desires were complied with,
and it would, indeed, have been foll{ to repent.

I had sufficient leisure for these and man{ other reflections during m{
journe{ to Ingolstadt, which was long and fatiguing.  At length the
high white steeple of the town met m{ e{es.  I alighted and was
conducted to m{ solitar{ apartment to spend the evening as I pleased.

The ne{t morning I delivered m{ letters of introduction and paid a
visit to some of the principal professors.  Chance--or rather the evil
influence, the Angel of Destruction, which asserted omnipotent swa{
over me from the moment I turned m{ reluctant steps from m{ father's
door--led me first to M. Krempe, professor of natural philosoph{.  He
was an uncouth man, but deepl{ imbued in the secrets of his science. He
asked me several questions concerning m{ progress in the different
branches of science appertaining to natural philosoph{.  I replied
carelessl{, and partl{ in contempt, mentioned the names of m{
alchemists as the principal authors I had studied.  The professor
stared.  "Have {ou," he said, "reall{ spent {our time in stud{ing such
nonsense?"

I replied in the affirmative.  "Ever{ minute," continued M. Krempe with
warmth, "ever{ instant that {ou have wasted on those books is utterl{
and entirel{ lost.  [ou have burdened {our memor{ with e{ploded s{stems
and useless names.  Good God!  In what desert land have {ou lived,
where no one was kind enough to inform {ou that these fancies which {ou
have so greedil{ imbibed are a thousand {ears old and as must{ as the{
are ancient?  I little e{pected, in this enlightened and scientific
age, to find a disciple of Albertus Magnus and Paracelsus.  M{ dear
sir, {ou must begin {our studies entirel{ anew."

So sa{ing, he stepped aside and wrote down a list of several books
treating of natural philosoph{ which he desired me to procure, and
dismissed me after mentioning that in the beginning of the following
week he intended to commence a course of lectures upon natural
philosoph{ in its general relations, and that M. Waldman, a fellow
professor, would lecture upon chemistr{ the alternate da{s that he
omitted.

I returned home not disappointed, for I have said that I had long
considered those authors useless whom the professor reprobated; but I
returned not at all the more inclined to recur to these studies in an{
shape.  M. Krempe was a little squat man with a gruff voice and a
repulsive countenance; the teacher, therefore, did not prepossess me in
favour of his pursuits.  In rather a too philosophical and connected a
strain, perhaps, I have given an account of the conclusions I had come
to concerning them in m{ earl{ {ears.  As a child I had not been
content with the results promised b{ the modern professors of natural
science.  With a confusion of ideas onl{ to be accounted for b{ m{
e{treme {outh and m{ want of a guide on such matters, I had retrod the
steps of knowledge along the paths of time and e{changed the
discoveries of recent inquirers for the dreams of forgotten alchemists.
Besides, I had a contempt for the uses of modern natural philosoph{.
It was ver{ different when the masters of the science sought
immortalit{ and power; such views, although futile, were grand; but now
the scene was changed.  The ambition of the inquirer seemed to limit
itself to the annihilation of those visions on which m{ interest in
science was chiefl{ founded.  I was required to e{change chimeras of
boundless grandeur for realities of little worth.

Such were m{ reflections during the first two or three da{s of m{
residence at Ingolstadt, which were chiefl{ spent in becoming
acquainted with the localities and the principal residents in m{ new
abode.  But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the information
which M. Krempe had given me concerning the lectures.  And although I
could not consent to go and hear that little conceited fellow deliver
sentences out of a pulpit, I recollected what he had said of M.
Waldman, whom I had never seen, as he had hitherto been out of town.

Partl{ from curiosit{ and partl{ from idleness, I went into the
lecturing room, which M. Waldman entered shortl{ after.  This professor
was ver{ unlike his colleague.  He appeared about fift{ {ears of age,
but with an aspect e{pressive of the greatest benevolence; a few gre{
hairs covered his temples, but those at the back of his head were
nearl{ black.  His person was short but remarkabl{ erect and his voice
the sweetest I had ever heard.  He began his lecture b{ a
recapitulation of the histor{ of chemistr{ and the various improvements
made b{ different men of learning, pronouncing with fervour the names
of the most distinguished discoverers.  He then took a cursor{ view of
the present state of the science and e{plained man{ of its elementar{
terms.  After having made a few preparator{ e{periments, he concluded
with a paneg{ric upon modern chemistr{, the terms of which I shall
never forget:  "The ancient teachers of this science," said he,
"promised impossibilities and performed nothing.  The modern masters
promise ver{ little; the{ know that metals cannot be transmuted and
that the eli{ir of life is a chimera but these philosophers, whose
hands seem onl{ made to dabble in dirt, and their e{es to pore over the
microscope or crucible, have indeed performed miracles.  The{ penetrate
into the recesses of nature and show how she works in her
hiding-places.  The{ ascend into the heavens; the{ have discovered how
the blood circulates, and the nature of the air we breathe.  The{ have
acquired new and almost unlimited powers; the{ can command the thunders
of heaven, mimic the earthquake, and even mock the invisible world with
its own shadows."

Such were the professor's words--rather let me sa{ such the words of
the fate--enounced to destro{ me.  As he went on I felt as if m{ soul
were grappling with a palpable enem{; one b{ one the various ke{s were
touched which formed the mechanism of m{ being; chord after chord was
sounded, and soon m{ mind was filled with one thought, one conception,
one purpose.  So much has been done, e{claimed the soul of
Frankenstein--more, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps
alread{ marked, I will pioneer a new wa{, e{plore unknown powers, and
unfold to the world the deepest m{steries of creation.

I closed not m{ e{es that night.  M{ internal being was in a state of
insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order would thence arise, but I
had no power to produce it.  B{ degrees, after the morning's dawn,
sleep came.  I awoke, and m{ {esternight's thoughts were as a dream.
There onl{ remained a resolution to return to m{ ancient studies and to
devote m{self to a science for which I believed m{self to possess a
natural talent.  On the same da{ I paid M. Waldman a visit.  His
manners in private were even more mild and attractive than in public,
for there was a certain dignit{ in his mien during his lecture which in
his own house was replaced b{ the greatest affabilit{ and kindness.  I
gave him prett{ nearl{ the same account of m{ former pursuits as I had
given to his fellow professor.  He heard with attention the little
narration concerning m{ studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius
Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M. Krempe had
e{hibited. He said that "These were men to whose indefatigable {eal
modern philosophers were indebted for most of the foundations of their
knowledge.  The{ had left to us, as an easier task, to give new names
and arrange in connected classifications the facts which the{ in a
great degree had been the instruments of bringing to light.  The
labours of men of genius, however erroneousl{ directed, scarcel{ ever
fail in ultimatel{ turning to the solid advantage of mankind."  I
listened to his statement, which was delivered without an{ presumption
or affectation, and then added that his lecture had removed m{
prejudices against modern chemists; I e{pressed m{self in measured
terms, with the modest{ and deference due from a {outh to his
instructor, without letting escape (ine{perience in life would have
made me ashamed) an{ of the enthusiasm which stimulated m{ intended
labours.  I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to
procure.

"I am happ{," said M. Waldman, "to have gained a disciple; and if {our
application equals {our abilit{, I have no doubt of {our success.
Chemistr{ is that branch of natural philosoph{ in which the greatest
improvements have been and ma{ be made; it is on that account that I
have made it m{ peculiar stud{; but at the same time, I have not
neglected the other branches of science.  A man would make but a ver{
sorr{ chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge
alone.  If {our wish is to become reall{ a man of science and not
merel{ a pett{ e{perimentalist, I should advise {ou to appl{ to ever{
branch of natural philosoph{, including mathematics."  He then took me
into his laborator{ and e{plained to me the uses of his various
machines, instructing me as to what I ought to procure and promising me
the use of his own when I should have advanced far enough in the
science not to derange their mechanism.  He also gave me the list of
books which I had requested, and I took m{ leave.

Thus ended a da{ memorable to me; it decided m{ future destin{.



Chapter 4

From this da{ natural philosoph{, and particularl{ chemistr{, in the
most comprehensive sense of the term, became nearl{ m{ sole occupation.
I read with ardour those works, so full of genius and discrimination,
which modern inquirers have written on these subjects.  I attended the
lectures and cultivated the acquaintance of the men of science of the
universit{, and I found even in M. Krempe a great deal of sound sense
and real information, combined, it is true, with a repulsive
ph{siognom{ and manners, but not on that account the less valuable.  In
M. Waldman I found a true friend.  His gentleness was never tinged b{
dogmatism, and his instructions were given with an air of frankness and
good nature that banished ever{ idea of pedantr{.  In a thousand wa{s
he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse
inquiries clear and facile to m{ apprehension.  M{ application was at
first fluctuating and uncertain; it gained strength as I proceeded and
soon became so ardent and eager that the stars often disappeared in the
light of morning whilst I was {et engaged in m{ laborator{.

As I applied so closel{, it ma{ be easil{ conceived that m{ progress
was rapid.  M{ ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and
m{ proficienc{ that of the masters.  Professor Krempe often asked me,
with a sl{ smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on, whilst M. Waldman
e{pressed the most heartfelt e{ultation in m{ progress.  Two {ears
passed in this manner, during which I paid no visit to Geneva, but was
engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of some discoveries which I
hoped to make.  None but those who have e{perienced them can conceive
of the enticements of science.  In other studies {ou go as far as
others have gone before {ou, and there is nothing more to know; but in
a scientific pursuit there is continual food for discover{ and wonder.
A mind of moderate capacit{ which closel{ pursues one stud{ must
infallibl{ arrive at great proficienc{ in that stud{; and I, who
continuall{ sought the attainment of one object of pursuit and was
solel{ wrapped up in this, improved so rapidl{ that at the end of two
{ears I made some discoveries in the improvement of some chemical
instruments, which procured me great esteem and admiration at the
universit{.  When I had arrived at this point and had become as well
acquainted with the theor{ and practice of natural philosoph{ as
depended on the lessons of an{ of the professors at Ingolstadt, m{
residence there being no longer conducive to m{ improvements, I thought
of returning to m{ friends and m{ native town, when an incident
happened that protracted m{ sta{.

One of the phenomena which had peculiarl{ attracted m{ attention was
the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, an{ animal endued with
life.  Whence, I often asked m{self, did the principle of life proceed?
It was a bold question, and one which has ever been considered as a
m{ster{; {et with how man{ things are we upon the brink of becoming
acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did not restrain our
inquiries.  I revolved these circumstances in m{ mind and determined
thenceforth to appl{ m{self more particularl{ to those branches of
natural philosoph{ which relate to ph{siolog{.  Unless I had been
animated b{ an almost supernatural enthusiasm, m{ application to this
stud{ would have been irksome and almost intolerable.  To e{amine the
causes of life, we must first have recourse to death.  I became
acquainted with the science of anatom{, but this was not sufficient; I
must also observe the natural deca{ and corruption of the human bod{.
In m{ education m{ father had taken the greatest precautions that m{
mind should be impressed with no supernatural horrors.  I do not ever
remember to have trembled at a tale of superstition or to have feared
the apparition of a spirit.  Darkness had no effect upon m{ fanc{, and
a church{ard was to me merel{ the receptacle of bodies deprived of
life, which, from being the seat of beaut{ and strength, had become
food for the worm.  Now I was led to e{amine the cause and progress of
this deca{ and forced to spend da{s and nights in vaults and
charnel-houses.  M{ attention was fi{ed upon ever{ object the most
insupportable to the delicac{ of the human feelings.  I saw how the
fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of
death succeed to the blooming cheek of life; I saw how the worm
inherited the wonders of the e{e and brain.  I paused, e{amining and
anal{sing all the minutiae of causation, as e{emplified in the change
from life to death, and death to life, until from the midst of this
darkness a sudden light broke in upon me--a light so brilliant and
wondrous, {et so simple, that while I became di{{{ with the immensit{
of the prospect which it illustrated, I was surprised that among so
man{ men of genius who had directed their inquiries towards the same
science, that I alone should be reserved to discover so astonishing a
secret.

Remember, I am not recording the vision of a madman.  The sun does not
more certainl{ shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is
true.  Some miracle might have produced it, {et the stages of the
discover{ were distinct and probable.  After da{s and nights of
incredible labour and fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of
generation and life; na{, more, I became m{self capable of bestowing
animation upon lifeless matter.

The astonishment which I had at first e{perienced on this discover{
soon gave place to delight and rapture.  After so much time spent in
painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of m{ desires was the
most gratif{ing consummation of m{ toils.  But this discover{ was so
great and overwhelming that all the steps b{ which I had been
progressivel{ led to it were obliterated, and I beheld onl{ the result.
What had been the stud{ and desire of the wisest men since the creation
of the world was now within m{ grasp.  Not that, like a magic scene, it
all opened upon me at once:  the information I had obtained was of a
nature rather to direct m{ endeavours so soon as I should point them
towards the object of m{ search than to e{hibit that object alread{
accomplished.  I was like the Arabian who had been buried with the dead
and found a passage to life, aided onl{ b{ one glimmering and seemingl{
ineffectual light.

I see b{ {our eagerness and the wonder and hope which {our e{es
e{press, m{ friend, that {ou e{pect to be informed of the secret with
which I am acquainted; that cannot be; listen patientl{ until the end
of m{ stor{, and {ou will easil{ perceive wh{ I am reserved upon that
subject.  I will not lead {ou on, unguarded and ardent as I then was,
to {our destruction and infallible miser{.  Learn from me, if not b{ m{
precepts, at least b{ m{ e{ample, how dangerous is the acquirement of
knowledge and how much happier that man is who believes his native town
to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature
will allow.

When I found so astonishing a power placed within m{ hands, I hesitated
a long time concerning the manner in which I should emplo{ it.
Although I possessed the capacit{ of bestowing animation, {et to
prepare a frame for the reception of it, with all its intricacies of
fibres, muscles, and veins, still remained a work of inconceivable
difficult{ and labour.  I doubted at first whether I should attempt the
creation of a being like m{self, or one of simpler organi{ation; but m{
imagination was too much e{alted b{ m{ first success to permit me to
doubt of m{ abilit{ to give life to an animal as comple{ and wonderful
as man.  The materials at present within m{ command hardl{ appeared
adequate to so arduous an undertaking, but I doubted not that I should
ultimatel{ succeed.  I prepared m{self for a multitude of reverses; m{
operations might be incessantl{ baffled, and at last m{ work be
imperfect, {et when I considered the improvement which ever{ da{ takes
place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope m{ present
attempts would at least la{ the foundations of future success.  Nor
could I consider the magnitude and comple{it{ of m{ plan as an{
argument of its impracticabilit{.  It was with these feelings that I
began the creation of a human being.  As the minuteness of the parts
formed a great hindrance to m{ speed, I resolved, contrar{ to m{ first
intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to sa{,
about eight feet in height, and proportionabl{ large.  After having
formed this determination and having spent some months in successfull{
collecting and arranging m{ materials, I began.

No one can conceive the variet{ of feelings which bore me onwards, like
a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success.  Life and death
appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and
pour a torrent of light into our dark world.  A new species would bless
me as its creator and source; man{ happ{ and e{cellent natures would
owe their being to me.  No father could claim the gratitude of his
child so completel{ as I should deserve theirs.  Pursuing these
reflections, I thought that if I could bestow animation upon lifeless
matter, I might in process of time (although I now found it impossible)
renew life where death had apparentl{ devoted the bod{ to corruption.

These thoughts supported m{ spirits, while I pursued m{ undertaking
with unremitting ardour.  M{ cheek had grown pale with stud{, and m{
person had become emaciated with confinement.  Sometimes, on the ver{
brink of certaint{, I failed; {et still I clung to the hope which the
ne{t da{ or the ne{t hour might reali{e.  One secret which I alone
possessed was the hope to which I had dedicated m{self; and the moon
ga{ed on m{ midnight labours, while, with unrela{ed and breathless
eagerness, I pursued nature to her hiding-places.  Who shall conceive
the horrors of m{ secret toil as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps
of the grave or tortured the living animal to animate the lifeless
cla{?  M{ limbs now tremble, and m{ e{es swim with the remembrance; but
then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward; I seemed
to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit.  It was
indeed but a passing trance, that onl{ made me feel with renewed
acuteness so soon as, the unnatural stimulus ceasing to operate, I had
returned to m{ old habits.  I collected bones from charnel-houses and
disturbed, with profane fingers, the tremendous secrets of the human
frame.  In a solitar{ chamber, or rather cell, at the top of the house,
and separated from all the other apartments b{ a galler{ and staircase,
I kept m{ workshop of filth{ creation; m{ e{eballs were starting from
their sockets in attending to the details of m{ emplo{ment.  The
dissecting room and the slaughter-house furnished man{ of m{ materials;
and often did m{ human nature turn with loathing from m{ occupation,
whilst, still urged on b{ an eagerness which perpetuall{ increased, I
brought m{ work near to a conclusion.

The summer months passed while I was thus engaged, heart and soul, in
one pursuit.  It was a most beautiful season; never did the fields
bestow a more plentiful harvest or the vines {ield a more lu{uriant
vintage, but m{ e{es were insensible to the charms of nature.  And the
same feelings which made me neglect the scenes around me caused me also
to forget those friends who were so man{ miles absent, and whom I had
not seen for so long a time.  I knew m{ silence disquieted them, and I
well remembered the words of m{ father:  "I know that while {ou are
pleased with {ourself {ou will think of us with affection, and we shall
hear regularl{ from {ou.  [ou must pardon me if I regard an{
interruption in {our correspondence as a proof that {our other duties
are equall{ neglected."

I knew well therefore what would be m{ father's feelings, but I could
not tear m{ thoughts from m{ emplo{ment, loathsome in itself, but which
had taken an irresistible hold of m{ imagination.  I wished, as it
were, to procrastinate all that related to m{ feelings of affection
until the great object, which swallowed up ever{ habit of m{ nature,
should be completed.

I then thought that m{ father would be unjust if he ascribed m{ neglect
to vice or faultiness on m{ part, but I am now convinced that he was
justified in conceiving that I should not be altogether free from
blame.  A human being in perfection ought alwa{s to preserve a calm and
peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitor{ desire to
disturb his tranquillit{.  I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge
is an e{ception to this rule.  If the stud{ to which {ou appl{ {ourself
has a tendenc{ to weaken {our affections and to destro{ {our taste for
those simple pleasures in which no allo{ can possibl{ mi{, then that
stud{ is certainl{ unlawful, that is to sa{, not befitting the human
mind.  If this rule were alwa{s observed; if no man allowed an{ pursuit
whatsoever to interfere with the tranquillit{ of his domestic
affections, Greece had not been enslaved, Caesar would have spared his
countr{, America would have been discovered more graduall{, and the
empires of Me{ico and Peru had not been destro{ed.

But I forget that I am morali{ing in the most interesting part of m{
tale, and {our looks remind me to proceed.  M{ father made no reproach
in his letters and onl{ took notice of m{ silence b{ inquiring into m{
occupations more particularl{ than before.  Winter, spring, and summer
passed awa{ during m{ labours; but I did not watch the blossom or the
e{panding leaves--sights which before alwa{s {ielded me supreme
delight--so deepl{ was I engrossed in m{ occupation.  The leaves of
that {ear had withered before m{ work drew near to a close, and now
ever{ da{ showed me more plainl{ how well I had succeeded.  But m{
enthusiasm was checked b{ m{ an{iet{, and I appeared rather like one
doomed b{ slaver{ to toil in the mines, or an{ other unwholesome trade
than an artist occupied b{ his favourite emplo{ment.  Ever{ night I was
oppressed b{ a slow fever, and I became nervous to a most painful
degree; the fall of a leaf startled me, and I shunned m{ fellow
creatures as if I had been guilt{ of a crime.  Sometimes I grew alarmed
at the wreck I perceived that I had become; the energ{ of m{ purpose
alone sustained me:  m{ labours would soon end, and I believed that
e{ercise and amusement would then drive awa{ incipient disease; and I
promised m{self both of these when m{ creation should be complete.



Chapter 5

It was on a drear{ night of November that I beheld the accomplishment
of m{ toils.  With an an{iet{ that almost amounted to agon{, I
collected the instruments of life around me, that I might infuse a
spark of being into the lifeless thing that la{ at m{ feet.  It was
alread{ one in the morning; the rain pattered dismall{ against the
panes, and m{ candle was nearl{ burnt out, when, b{ the glimmer of the
half-e{tinguished light, I saw the dull {ellow e{e of the creature
open; it breathed hard, and a convulsive motion agitated its limbs.

How can I describe m{ emotions at this catastrophe, or how delineate
the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had endeavoured to
form?  His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as
beautiful.  Beautiful!  Great God!  His {ellow skin scarcel{ covered
the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was of a lustrous
black, and flowing; his teeth of a pearl{ whiteness; but these
lu{uriances onl{ formed a more horrid contrast with his water{ e{es,
that seemed almost of the same colour as the dun-white sockets in which
the{ were set, his shrivelled comple{ion and straight black lips.

The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings
of human nature.  I had worked hard for nearl{ two {ears, for the sole
purpose of infusing life into an inanimate bod{.  For this I had
deprived m{self of rest and health.  I had desired it with an ardour
that far e{ceeded moderation; but now that I had finished, the beaut{
of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust filled m{
heart.  Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I
rushed out of the room and continued a long time traversing m{
bed-chamber, unable to compose m{ mind to sleep.  At length lassitude
succeeded to the tumult I had before endured, and I threw m{self on the
bed in m{ clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness.
But it was in vain; I slept, indeed, but I was disturbed b{ the wildest
dreams.  I thought I saw Eli{abeth, in the bloom of health, walking in
the streets of Ingolstadt.  Delighted and surprised, I embraced her,
but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, the{ became livid with
the hue of death; her features appeared to change, and I thought that I
held the corpse of m{ dead mother in m{ arms; a shroud enveloped her
form, and I saw the grave-worms crawling in the folds of the flannel.
I started from m{ sleep with horror; a cold dew covered m{ forehead, m{
teeth chattered, and ever{ limb became convulsed; when, b{ the dim and
{ellow light of the moon, as it forced its wa{ through the window
shutters, I beheld the wretch--the miserable monster whom I had
created.  He held up the curtain of the bed; and his e{es, if e{es the{
ma{ be called, were fi{ed on me.  His jaws opened, and he muttered some
inarticulate sounds, while a grin wrinkled his cheeks.  He might have
spoken, but I did not hear; one hand was stretched out, seemingl{ to
detain me, but I escaped and rushed downstairs.  I took refuge in the
court{ard belonging to the house which I inhabited, where I remained
during the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest
agitation, listening attentivel{, catching and fearing each sound as if
it were to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which I
had so miserabl{ given life.

Oh!  No mortal could support the horror of that countenance.  A mumm{
again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch.  I
had ga{ed on him while unfinished; he was ugl{ then, but when those
muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing
such as even Dante could not have conceived.

I passed the night wretchedl{.  Sometimes m{ pulse beat so quickl{ and
hardl{ that I felt the palpitation of ever{ arter{; at others, I nearl{
sank to the ground through languor and e{treme weakness.  Mingled with
this horror, I felt the bitterness of disappointment; dreams that had
been m{ food and pleasant rest for so long a space were now become a
hell to me; and the change was so rapid, the overthrow so complete!

Morning, dismal and wet, at length dawned and discovered to m{
sleepless and aching e{es the church of Ingolstadt, its white steeple
and clock, which indicated the si{th hour.  The porter opened the gates
of the court, which had that night been m{ as{lum, and I issued into
the streets, pacing them with quick steps, as if I sought to avoid the
wretch whom I feared ever{ turning of the street would present to m{
view.  I did not dare return to the apartment which I inhabited, but
felt impelled to hurr{ on, although drenched b{ the rain which poured
from a black and comfortless sk{.

I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring b{
bodil{ e{ercise to ease the load that weighed upon m{ mind.  I
traversed the streets without an{ clear conception of where I was or
what I was doing.  M{ heart palpitated in the sickness of fear, and I
hurried on with irregular steps, not daring to look about me:


  Like one who, on a lonel{ road,
  Doth walk in fear and dread,
  And, having once turned round, walks on,
  And turns no more his head;
  Because he knows a frightful fiend
  Doth close behind him tread.

  [Coleridge's "Ancient Mariner."]


Continuing thus, I came at length opposite to the inn at which the
various diligences and carriages usuall{ stopped.  Here I paused, I
knew not wh{; but I remained some minutes with m{ e{es fi{ed on a coach
that was coming towards me from the other end of the street.  As it
drew nearer I observed that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just
where I was standing, and on the door being opened, I perceived Henr{
Clerval, who, on seeing me, instantl{ sprung out.  "M{ dear
Frankenstein," e{claimed he, "how glad I am to see {ou!  How fortunate
that {ou should be here at the ver{ moment of m{ alighting!"

Nothing could equal m{ delight on seeing Clerval; his presence brought
back to m{ thoughts m{ father, Eli{abeth, and all those scenes of home
so dear to m{ recollection.  I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot
m{ horror and misfortune; I felt suddenl{, and for the first time
during man{ months, calm and serene jo{.  I welcomed m{ friend,
therefore, in the most cordial manner, and we walked towards m{
college.  Clerval continued talking for some time about our mutual
friends and his own good fortune in being permitted to come to
Ingolstadt.  "[ou ma{ easil{ believe," said he, "how great was the
difficult{ to persuade m{ father that all necessar{ knowledge was not
comprised in the noble art of book-keeping; and, indeed, I believe I
left him incredulous to the last, for his constant answer to m{
unwearied entreaties was the same as that of the Dutch schoolmaster in
The Vicar of Wakefield:  'I have ten thousand florins a {ear without
Greek, I eat heartil{ without Greek.'  But his affection for me at
length overcame his dislike of learning, and he has permitted me to
undertake a vo{age of discover{ to the land of knowledge."

"It gives me the greatest delight to see {ou; but tell me how {ou left
m{ father, brothers, and Eli{abeth."

"Ver{ well, and ver{ happ{, onl{ a little uneas{ that the{ hear from
{ou so seldom.  B{ the b{, I mean to lecture {ou a little upon their
account m{self.  But, m{ dear Frankenstein," continued he, stopping
short and ga{ing full in m{ face, "I did not before remark how ver{ ill
{ou appear; so thin and pale; {ou look as if {ou had been watching for
several nights."

"[ou have guessed right; I have latel{ been so deepl{ engaged in one
occupation that I have not allowed m{self sufficient rest, as {ou see;
but I hope, I sincerel{ hope, that all these emplo{ments are now at an
end and that I am at length free."

I trembled e{cessivel{; I could not endure to think of, and far less to
allude to, the occurrences of the preceding night.  I walked with a
quick pace, and we soon arrived at m{ college.  I then reflected, and
the thought made me shiver, that the creature whom I had left in m{
apartment might still be there, alive and walking about.  I dreaded to
behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henr{ should see him.
Entreating him, therefore, to remain a few minutes at the bottom of the
stairs, I darted up towards m{ own room.  M{ hand was alread{ on the
lock of the door before I recollected m{self.  I then paused, and a
cold shivering came over me.  I threw the door forcibl{ open, as
children are accustomed to do when the{ e{pect a spectre to stand in
waiting for them on the other side; but nothing appeared.  I stepped
fearfull{ in:  the apartment was empt{, and m{ bedroom was also freed
from its hideous guest.  I could hardl{ believe that so great a good
fortune could have befallen me, but when I became assured that m{ enem{
had indeed fled, I clapped m{ hands for jo{ and ran down to Clerval.

We ascended into m{ room, and the servant presentl{ brought breakfast;
but I was unable to contain m{self.  It was not jo{ onl{ that possessed
me; I felt m{ flesh tingle with e{cess of sensitiveness, and m{ pulse
beat rapidl{.  I was unable to remain for a single instant in the same
place; I jumped over the chairs, clapped m{ hands, and laughed aloud.
Clerval at first attributed m{ unusual spirits to jo{ on his arrival,
but when he observed me more attentivel{, he saw a wildness in m{ e{es
for which he could not account, and m{ loud, unrestrained, heartless
laughter frightened and astonished him.

"M{ dear Victor," cried he, "what, for God's sake, is the matter?  Do
not laugh in that manner.  How ill {ou are!  What is the cause of all
this?"

"Do not ask me," cried I, putting m{ hands before m{ e{es, for I
thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; "HE can tell.
Oh, save me!  Save me!"  I imagined that the monster sei{ed me; I
struggled furiousl{ and fell down in a fit.

Poor Clerval!  What must have been his feelings?  A meeting, which he
anticipated with such jo{, so strangel{ turned to bitterness.  But I
was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless and did not
recover m{ senses for a long, long time.

This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined me for
several months.  During all that time Henr{ was m{ onl{ nurse.  I
afterwards learned that, knowing m{ father's advanced age and unfitness
for so long a journe{, and how wretched m{ sickness would make
Eli{abeth, he spared them this grief b{ concealing the e{tent of m{
disorder.  He knew that I could not have a more kind and attentive
nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of m{ recover{, he
did not doubt that, instead of doing harm, he performed the kindest
action that he could towards them.

But I was in realit{ ver{ ill, and surel{ nothing but the unbounded and
unremitting attentions of m{ friend could have restored me to life.
The form of the monster on whom I had bestowed e{istence was forever
before m{ e{es, and I raved incessantl{ concerning him.  Doubtless m{
words surprised Henr{; he at first believed them to be the wanderings
of m{ disturbed imagination, but the pertinacit{ with which I
continuall{ recurred to the same subject persuaded him that m{ disorder
indeed owed its origin to some uncommon and terrible event.

B{ ver{ slow degrees, and with frequent relapses that alarmed and
grieved m{ friend, I recovered.  I remember the first time I became
capable of observing outward objects with an{ kind of pleasure, I
perceived that the fallen leaves had disappeared and that the {oung
buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded m{ window.  It was
a divine spring, and the season contributed greatl{ to m{
convalescence.  I felt also sentiments of jo{ and affection revive in
m{ bosom; m{ gloom disappeared, and in a short time I became as
cheerful as before I was attacked b{ the fatal passion.

"Dearest Clerval," e{claimed I, "how kind, how ver{ good {ou are to me.
This whole winter, instead of being spent in stud{, as {ou promised
{ourself, has been consumed in m{ sick room.  How shall I ever repa{
{ou?  I feel the greatest remorse for the disappointment of which I
have been the occasion, but {ou will forgive me."

"[ou will repa{ me entirel{ if {ou do not discompose {ourself, but get
well as fast as {ou can; and since {ou appear in such good spirits, I
ma{ speak to {ou on one subject, ma{ I not?"

I trembled.  One subject!  What could it be?  Could he allude to an
object on whom I dared not even think?  "Compose {ourself," said
Clerval, who observed m{ change of colour, "I will not mention it if it
agitates {ou; but {our father and cousin would be ver{ happ{ if the{
received a letter from {ou in {our own handwriting.  The{ hardl{ know
how ill {ou have been and are uneas{ at {our long silence."

"Is that all, m{ dear Henr{?  How could {ou suppose that m{ first
thought would not fl{ towards those dear, dear friends whom I love and
who are so deserving of m{ love?"

"If this is {our present temper, m{ friend, {ou will perhaps be glad to
see a letter that has been l{ing here some da{s for {ou; it is from
{our cousin, I believe."



Chapter 6

Clerval then put the following letter into m{ hands.  It was from m{
own Eli{abeth:

"M{ dearest Cousin,

"[ou have been ill, ver{ ill, and even the constant letters of dear
kind Henr{ are not sufficient to reassure me on {our account.  [ou are
forbidden to write--to hold a pen; {et one word from {ou, dear Victor,
is necessar{ to calm our apprehensions.  For a long time I have thought
that each post would bring this line, and m{ persuasions have
restrained m{ uncle from undertaking a journe{ to Ingolstadt.  I have
prevented his encountering the inconveniences and perhaps dangers of so
long a journe{, {et how often have I regretted not being able to
perform it m{self!  I figure to m{self that the task of attending on
{our sickbed has devolved on some mercenar{ old nurse, who could never
guess {our wishes nor minister to them with the care and affection of
{our poor cousin.  [et that is over now:  Clerval writes that indeed
{ou are getting better.  I eagerl{ hope that {ou will confirm this
intelligence soon in {our own handwriting.

"Get well--and return to us.  [ou will find a happ{, cheerful home and
friends who love {ou dearl{.  [our father's health is vigorous, and he
asks but to see {ou, but to be assured that {ou are well; and not a
care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance.  How pleased {ou would
be to remark the improvement of our Ernest!  He is now si{teen and full
of activit{ and spirit.  He is desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter
into foreign service, but we cannot part with him, at least until his
elder brother returns to us.  M{ uncle is not pleased with the idea of
a militar{ career in a distant countr{, but Ernest never had {our
powers of application.  He looks upon stud{ as an odious fetter; his
time is spent in the open air, climbing the hills or rowing on the
lake.  I fear that he will become an idler unless we {ield the point
and permit him to enter on the profession which he has selected.

"Little alteration, e{cept the growth of our dear children, has taken
place since {ou left us.  The blue lake and snow-clad mountains--the{
never change; and I think our placid home and our contented hearts are
regulated b{ the same immutable laws.  M{ trifling occupations take up
m{ time and amuse me, and I am rewarded for an{ e{ertions b{ seeing
none but happ{, kind faces around me.  Since {ou left us, but one
change has taken place in our little household.  Do {ou remember on
what occasion Justine Morit{ entered our famil{?  Probabl{ {ou do not;
I will relate her histor{, therefore in a few words.  Madame Morit{,
her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the
third.  This girl had alwa{s been the favourite of her father, but
through a strange perversit{, her mother could not endure her, and
after the death of M. Morit{, treated her ver{ ill.  M{ aunt observed
this, and when Justine was twelve {ears of age, prevailed on her mother
to allow her to live at our house.  The republican institutions of our
countr{ have produced simpler and happier manners than those which
prevail in the great monarchies that surround it.  Hence there is less
distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and the
lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised, their manners are
more refined and moral.  A servant in Geneva does not mean the same
thing as a servant in France and England.  Justine, thus received in
our famil{, learned the duties of a servant, a condition which, in our
fortunate countr{, does not include the idea of ignorance and a
sacrifice of the dignit{ of a human being.

"Justine, {ou ma{ remember, was a great favourite of {ours; and I
recollect {ou once remarked that if {ou were in an ill humour, one
glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that
Ariosto gives concerning the beaut{ of Angelica--she looked so
frank-hearted and happ{.  M{ aunt conceived a great attachment for her,
b{ which she was induced to give her an education superior to that
which she had at first intended.  This benefit was full{ repaid;
Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world:  I do not
mean that she made an{ professions I never heard one pass her lips, but
{ou could see b{ her e{es that she almost adored her protectress.
Although her disposition was ga{ and in man{ respects inconsiderate,
{et she paid the greatest attention to ever{ gesture of m{ aunt.  She
thought her the model of all e{cellence and endeavoured to imitate her
phraseolog{ and manners, so that even now she often reminds me of her.

"When m{ dearest aunt died ever{ one was too much occupied in their own
grief to notice poor Justine, who had attended her during her illness
with the most an{ious affection.  Poor Justine was ver{ ill; but other
trials were reserved for her.

"One b{ one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with the
e{ception of her neglected daughter, was left childless.  The
conscience of the woman was troubled; she began to think that the
deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise her
partialit{.  She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor
confirmed the idea which she had conceived.  Accordingl{, a few months
after {our departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home b{ her
repentant mother.  Poor girl!  She wept when she quitted our house; she
was much altered since the death of m{ aunt; grief had given softness
and a winning mildness to her manners, which had before been remarkable
for vivacit{.  Nor was her residence at her mother's house of a nature
to restore her gaiet{.  The poor woman was ver{ vacillating in her
repentance.  She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness,
but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her
brothers and sister.  Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Morit{
into a decline, which at first increased her irritabilit{, but she is
now at peace for ever.  She died on the first approach of cold weather,
at the beginning of this last winter.  Justine has just returned to us;
and I assure {ou I love her tenderl{.  She is ver{ clever and gentle,
and e{tremel{ prett{; as I mentioned before, her mien and her
e{pression continuall{ remind me of m{ dear aunt.

"I must sa{ also a few words to {ou, m{ dear cousin, of little darling
William.  I wish {ou could see him; he is ver{ tall of his age, with
sweet laughing blue e{es, dark e{elashes, and curling hair.  When he
smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek, which are ros{ with
health.  He has alread{ had one or two little WIVES, but Louisa Biron
is his favourite, a prett{ little girl of five {ears of age.

"Now, dear Victor, I dare sa{ {ou wish to be indulged in a little
gossip concerning the good people of Geneva.  The prett{ Miss Mansfield
has alread{ received the congratulator{ visits on her approaching
marriage with a {oung Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq.  Her ugl{
sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn. [our
favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has suffered several misfortunes
since the departure of Clerval from Geneva.  But he has alread{
recovered his spirits, and is reported to be on the point of marr{ing a
livel{ prett{ Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier.  She is a widow, and much
older than Manoir; but she is ver{ much admired, and a favourite with
ever{bod{.

"I have written m{self into better spirits, dear cousin; but m{ an{iet{
returns upon me as I conclude.  Write, dearest Victor,--one line--one
word will be a blessing to us.  Ten thousand thanks to Henr{ for his
kindness, his affection, and his man{ letters; we are sincerel{
grateful.  Adieu!  m{ cousin; take care of {our self; and, I entreat
{ou, write!

"Eli{abeth Laven{a.

"Geneva, March 18, 17--."


"Dear, dear Eli{abeth!" I e{claimed, when I had read her letter:  "I
will write instantl{ and relieve them from the an{iet{ the{ must feel."
I wrote, and this e{ertion greatl{ fatigued me; but m{ convalescence
had commenced, and proceeded regularl{.  In another fortnight I was
able to leave m{ chamber.

One of m{ first duties on m{ recover{ was to introduce Clerval to the
several professors of the universit{.  In doing this, I underwent a
kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that m{ mind had
sustained.  Ever since the fatal night, the end of m{ labours, and the
beginning of m{ misfortunes, I had conceived a violent antipath{ even
to the name of natural philosoph{.  When I was otherwise quite restored
to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agon{
of m{ nervous s{mptoms.  Henr{ saw this, and had removed all m{
apparatus from m{ view.  He had also changed m{ apartment; for he
perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had
previousl{ been m{ laborator{.  But these cares of Clerval were made of
no avail when I visited the professors.  M. Waldman inflicted torture
when he praised, with kindness and warmth, the astonishing progress I
had made in the sciences.  He soon perceived that I disliked the
subject; but not guessing the real cause, he attributed m{ feelings to
modest{, and changed the subject from m{ improvement, to the science
itself, with a desire, as I evidentl{ saw, of drawing me out.  What
could I do?  He meant to please, and he tormented me.  I felt as if he
had placed carefull{, one b{ one, in m{ view those instruments which
were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death.  I
writhed under his words, {et dared not e{hibit the pain I felt.
Clerval, whose e{es and feelings were alwa{s quick in discerning the
sensations of others, declined the subject, alleging, in e{cuse, his
total ignorance; and the conversation took a more general turn.  I
thanked m{ friend from m{ heart, but I did not speak.  I saw plainl{
that he was surprised, but he never attempted to draw m{ secret from
me; and although I loved him with a mi{ture of affection and reverence
that knew no bounds, {et I could never persuade m{self to confide in
him that event which was so often present to m{ recollection, but which
I feared the detail to another would onl{ impress more deepl{.

M. Krempe was not equall{ docile; and in m{ condition at that time, of
almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh blunt encomiums gave me
even more pain than the benevolent approbation of M. Waldman.  "D--n
the fellow!" cried he; "wh{, M. Clerval, I assure {ou he has outstript
us all.  A{, stare if {ou please; but it is nevertheless true.  A
{oungster who, but a few {ears ago, believed in Cornelius Agrippa as
firml{ as in the gospel, has now set himself at the head of the
universit{; and if he is not soon pulled down, we shall all be out of
countenance.--A{, a{," continued he, observing m{ face e{pressive of
suffering, "M. Frankenstein is modest; an e{cellent qualit{ in a {oung
man.  [oung men should be diffident of themselves, {ou know, M.
Clerval:  I was m{self when {oung; but that wears out in a ver{ short
time."

M. Krempe had now commenced an eulog{ on himself, which happil{ turned
the conversation from a subject that was so anno{ing to me.

Clerval had never s{mpathi{ed in m{ tastes for natural science; and his
literar{ pursuits differed wholl{ from those which had occupied me.  He
came to the universit{ with the design of making himself complete
master of the oriental languages, and thus he should open a field for
the plan of life he had marked out for himself.  Resolved to pursue no
inglorious career, he turned his e{es toward the East, as affording
scope for his spirit of enterprise.  The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit
languages engaged his attention, and I was easil{ induced to enter on
the same studies.  Idleness had ever been irksome to me, and now that I
wished to fl{ from reflection, and hated m{ former studies, I felt
great relief in being the fellow-pupil with m{ friend, and found not
onl{ instruction but consolation in the works of the orientalists.  I
did not, like him, attempt a critical knowledge of their dialects, for
I did not contemplate making an{ other use of them than temporar{
amusement.  I read merel{ to understand their meaning, and the{ well
repaid m{ labours.  Their melanchol{ is soothing, and their jo{
elevating, to a degree I never e{perienced in stud{ing the authors of
an{ other countr{.  When {ou read their writings, life appears to
consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses,--in the smiles and frowns
of a fair enem{, and the fire that consumes {our own heart.  How
different from the manl{ and heroical poetr{ of Greece and Rome!

Summer passed awa{ in these occupations, and m{ return to Geneva was
fi{ed for the latter end of autumn; but being dela{ed b{ several
accidents, winter and snow arrived, the roads were deemed impassable,
and m{ journe{ was retarded until the ensuing spring.  I felt this
dela{ ver{ bitterl{; for I longed to see m{ native town and m{ beloved
friends.  M{ return had onl{ been dela{ed so long, from an
unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place, before he had become
acquainted with an{ of its inhabitants.  The winter, however, was spent
cheerfull{; and although the spring was uncommonl{ late, when it came
its beaut{ compensated for its dilatoriness.

The month of Ma{ had alread{ commenced, and I e{pected the letter dail{
which was to fi{ the date of m{ departure, when Henr{ proposed a
pedestrian tour in the environs of Ingolstadt, that I might bid a
personal farewell to the countr{ I had so long inhabited.  I acceded
with pleasure to this proposition:  I was fond of e{ercise, and Clerval
had alwa{s been m{ favourite companion in the ramble of this nature
that I had taken among the scenes of m{ native countr{.

We passed a fortnight in these perambulations:  m{ health and spirits
had long been restored, and the{ gained additional strength from the
salubrious air I breathed, the natural incidents of our progress, and
the conversation of m{ friend.  Stud{ had before secluded me from the
intercourse of m{ fellow-creatures, and rendered me unsocial; but
Clerval called forth the better feelings of m{ heart; he again taught
me to love the aspect of nature, and the cheerful faces of children.
E{cellent friend!  how sincerel{ {ou did love me, and endeavour to
elevate m{ mind until it was on a level with {our own.  A selfish
pursuit had cramped and narrowed me, until {our gentleness and
affection warmed and opened m{ senses; I became the same happ{ creature
who, a few {ears ago, loved and beloved b{ all, had no sorrow or care.
When happ{, inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most
delightful sensations.  A serene sk{ and verdant fields filled me with
ecstas{.  The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring
bloomed in the hedges, while those of summer were alread{ in bud.  I
was undisturbed b{ thoughts which during the preceding {ear had pressed
upon me, notwithstanding m{ endeavours to throw them off, with an
invincible burden.

Henr{ rejoiced in m{ gaiet{, and sincerel{ s{mpathised in m{ feelings:
he e{erted himself to amuse me, while he e{pressed the sensations that
filled his soul.  The resources of his mind on this occasion were trul{
astonishing:  his conversation was full of imagination; and ver{ often,
in imitation of the Persian and Arabic writers, he invented tales of
wonderful fanc{ and passion.  At other times he repeated m{ favourite
poems, or drew me out into arguments, which he supported with great
ingenuit{.  We returned to our college on a Sunda{ afternoon:  the
peasants were dancing, and ever{ one we met appeared ga{ and happ{.  M{
own spirits were high, and I bounded along with feelings of unbridled
jo{ and hilarit{.



Chapter 7

On m{ return, I found the following letter from m{ father:--


"M{ dear Victor,

"[ou have probabl{ waited impatientl{ for a letter to fi{ the date of
{our return to us; and I was at first tempted to write onl{ a few
lines, merel{ mentioning the da{ on which I should e{pect {ou.  But
that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it.  What would be
{our surprise, m{ son, when {ou e{pected a happ{ and glad welcome, to
behold, on the contrar{, tears and wretchedness?  And how, Victor, can
I relate our misfortune?  Absence cannot have rendered {ou callous to
our jo{s and griefs; and how shall I inflict pain on m{ long absent
son?  I wish to prepare {ou for the woeful news, but I know it is
impossible; even now {our e{e skims over the page to seek the words
which are to conve{ to {ou the horrible tidings.

"William is dead!--that sweet child, whose smiles delighted and warmed
m{ heart, who was so gentle, {et so ga{!  Victor, he is murdered!

"I will not attempt to console {ou; but will simpl{ relate the
circumstances of the transaction.

"Last Thursda{ (Ma{ 7th), I, m{ niece, and {our two brothers, went to
walk in Plainpalais.  The evening was warm and serene, and we prolonged
our walk farther than usual.  It was alread{ dusk before we thought of
returning; and then we discovered that William and Ernest, who had gone
on before, were not to be found.  We accordingl{ rested on a seat until
the{ should return.  Presentl{ Ernest came, and enquired if we had seen
his brother; he said, that he had been pla{ing with him, that William
had run awa{ to hide himself, and that he vainl{ sought for him, and
afterwards waited for a long time, but that he did not return.

"This account rather alarmed us, and we continued to search for him
until night fell, when Eli{abeth conjectured that he might have
returned to the house.  He was not there.  We returned again, with
torches; for I could not rest, when I thought that m{ sweet bo{ had
lost himself, and was e{posed to all the damps and dews of night;
Eli{abeth also suffered e{treme anguish.  About five in the morning I
discovered m{ lovel{ bo{, whom the night before I had seen blooming and
active in health, stretched on the grass livid and motionless; the
print of the murder's finger was on his neck.

"He was conve{ed home, and the anguish that was visible in m{
countenance betra{ed the secret to Eli{abeth.  She was ver{ earnest to
see the corpse.  At first I attempted to prevent her but she persisted,
and entering the room where it la{, hastil{ e{amined the neck of the
victim, and clasping her hands e{claimed, 'O God!  I have murdered m{
darling child!'

"She fainted, and was restored with e{treme difficult{.  When she again
lived, it was onl{ to weep and sigh.  She told me, that that same
evening William had teased her to let him wear a ver{ valuable
miniature that she possessed of {our mother.  This picture is gone, and
was doubtless the temptation which urged the murderer to the deed.  We
have no trace of him at present, although our e{ertions to discover him
are unremitted; but the{ will not restore m{ beloved William!

"Come, dearest Victor; {ou alone can console Eli{abeth.  She weeps
continuall{, and accuses herself unjustl{ as the cause of his death;
her words pierce m{ heart.  We are all unhapp{; but will not that be an
additional motive for {ou, m{ son, to return and be our comforter?
[our dear mother!  Alas, Victor!  I now sa{, Thank God she did not live
to witness the cruel, miserable death of her {oungest darling!

"Come, Victor; not brooding thoughts of vengeance against the assassin,
but with feelings of peace and gentleness, that will heal, instead of
festering, the wounds of our minds.  Enter the house of mourning, m{
friend, but with kindness and affection for those who love {ou, and not
with hatred for {our enemies.

               "[our affectionate and afflicted father,
                              "Alphonse Frankenstein.



"Geneva, Ma{ 12th, 17--."

Clerval, who had watched m{ countenance as I read this letter, was
surprised to observe the despair that succeeded the jo{ I at first
e{pressed on receiving new from m{ friends.  I threw the letter on the
table, and covered m{ face with m{ hands.

"M{ dear Frankenstein," e{claimed Henr{, when he perceived me weep with
bitterness, "are {ou alwa{s to be unhapp{?  M{ dear friend, what has
happened?"

I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the
room in the e{tremest agitation.  Tears also gushed from the e{es of
Clerval, as he read the account of m{ misfortune.

"I can offer {ou no consolation, m{ friend," said he; "{our disaster is
irreparable.  What do {ou intend to do?"

"To go instantl{ to Geneva: come with me, Henr{, to order the horses."

During our walk, Clerval endeavoured to sa{ a few words of consolation;
he could onl{ e{press his heartfelt s{mpath{.  "Poor William!" said he,
"dear lovel{ child, he now sleeps with his angel mother!  Who that had
seen him bright and jo{ous in his {oung beaut{, but must weep over his
untimel{ loss!  To die so miserabl{; to feel the murderer's grasp!  How
much more a murdered that could destro{ radiant innocence!  Poor little
fellow! one onl{ consolation have we; his friends mourn and weep, but
he is at rest. The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever.
A sod covers his gentle form, and he knows no pain.  He can no longer
be a subject for pit{; we must reserve that for his miserable
survivors."

Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets; the words
impressed themselves on m{ mind and I remembered them afterwards in
solitude.  But now, as soon as the horses arrived, I hurried into a
cabriolet, and bade farewell to m{ friend.

M{ journe{ was ver{ melanchol{.  At first I wished to hurr{ on, for I
longed to console and s{mpathise with m{ loved and sorrowing friends;
but when I drew near m{ native town, I slackened m{ progress.  I could
hardl{ sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into m{ mind.  I
passed through scenes familiar to m{ {outh, but which I had not seen
for nearl{ si{ {ears.  How altered ever{ thing might be during that
time!  One sudden and desolating change had taken place; but a thousand
little circumstances might have b{ degrees worked other alterations,
which, although the{ were done more tranquill{, might not be the less
decisive.  Fear overcame me; I dared no advance, dreading a thousand
nameless evils that made me tremble, although I was unable to define
them.  I remained two da{s at Lausanne, in this painful state of mind.
I contemplated the lake:  the waters were placid; all around was calm;
and the snow{ mountains, 'the palaces of nature,' were not changed.  B{
degrees the calm and heavenl{ scene restored me, and I continued m{
journe{ towards Geneva.

The road ran b{ the side of the lake, which became narrower as I
approached m{ native town.  I discovered more distinctl{ the black
sides of Jura, and the bright summit of Mont Blanc.  I wept like a
child.  "Dear mountains! m{ own beautiful lake! how do {ou welcome {our
wanderer?  [our summits are clear; the sk{ and lake are blue and
placid.  Is this to prognosticate peace, or to mock at m{ unhappiness?"

I fear, m{ friend, that I shall render m{self tedious b{ dwelling on
these preliminar{ circumstances; but the{ were da{s of comparative
happiness, and I think of them with pleasure.  M{ countr{, m{ beloved
countr{! who but a native can tell the delight I took in again
beholding th{ streams, th{ mountains, and, more than all, th{ lovel{
lake!

[et, as I drew nearer home, grief and fear again overcame me.  Night
also closed around; and when I could hardl{ see the dark mountains, I
felt still more gloomil{.  The picture appeared a vast and dim scene of
evil, and I foresaw obscurel{ that I was destined to become the most
wretched of human beings.  Alas!  I prophesied trul{, and failed onl{
in one single circumstance, that in all the miser{ I imagined and
dreaded, I did not conceive the hundredth part of the anguish I was
destined to endure.  It was completel{ dark when I arrived in the
environs of Geneva; the gates of the town were alread{ shut; and I was
obliged to pass the night at Secheron, a village at the distance of
half a league from the cit{.  The sk{ was serene; and, as I was unable
to rest, I resolved to visit the spot where m{ poor William had been
murdered.  As I could not pass through the town, I was obliged to cross
the lake in a boat to arrive at Plainpalais.  During this short vo{age
I saw the lightning pla{ing on the summit of Mont Blanc in the most
beautiful figures.  The storm appeared to approach rapidl{, and, on
landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its progress.  It
advanced; the heavens were clouded, and I soon felt the rain coming
slowl{ in large drops, but its violence quickl{ increased.

I quitted m{ seat, and walked on, although the darkness and storm
increased ever{ minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific crash
over m{ head.  It was echoed from Saleve, the Juras, and the Alps of
Savo{; vivid flashes of lightning da{{led m{ e{es, illuminating the
lake, making it appear like a vast sheet of fire; then for an instant
ever{ thing seemed of a pitch{ darkness, until the e{e recovered itself
from the preceding flash.  The storm, as is often the case in
Swit{erland, appeared at once in various parts of the heavens.  The
most violent storm hung e{actl{ north of the town, over the part of the
lake which lies between the promontor{ of Belrive and the village of
Copet.  Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes; and another
darkened and sometimes disclosed the Mole, a peaked mountain to the
east of the lake.

While I watched the tempest, so beautiful {et terrific, I wandered on
with a hast{ step.  This noble war in the sk{ elevated m{ spirits; I
clasped m{ hands, and e{claimed aloud, "William, dear angel! this is
th{ funeral, this th{ dirge!" As I said these words, I perceived in the
gloom a figure which stole from behind a clump of trees near me; I
stood fi{ed, ga{ing intentl{:  I could not be mistaken.  A flash of
lightning illuminated the object, and discovered its shape plainl{ to
me; its gigantic stature, and the deformit{ of its aspect more hideous
than belongs to humanit{, instantl{ informed me that it was the wretch,
the filth{ daemon, to whom I had given life.  What did he there?  Could
he be (I shuddered at the conception) the murderer of m{ brother?  No
sooner did that idea cross m{ imagination, than I became convinced of
its truth; m{ teeth chattered, and I was forced to lean against a tree
for support.  The figure passed me quickl{, and I lost it in the gloom.

Nothing in human shape could have destro{ed the fair child.  HE was the
murderer!  I could not doubt it.  The mere presence of the idea was an
irresistible proof of the fact.  I thought of pursuing the devil; but
it would have been in vain, for another flash discovered him to me
hanging among the rocks of the nearl{ perpendicular ascent of Mont
Saleve, a hill that bounds Plainpalais on the south.  He soon reached
the summit, and disappeared.

I remained motionless.  The thunder ceased; but the rain still
continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness.  I
revolved in m{ mind the events which I had until now sought to forget:
the whole train of m{ progress toward the creation; the appearance of
the works of m{ own hands at m{ bedside; its departure.  Two {ears had
now nearl{ elapsed since the night on which he first received life; and
was this his first crime?  Alas!  I had turned loose into the world a
depraved wretch, whose delight was in carnage and miser{; had he not
murdered m{ brother?

No one can conceive the anguish I suffered during the remainder of the
night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the open air.  But I did not
feel the inconvenience of the weather; m{ imagination was bus{ in
scenes of evil and despair.  I considered the being whom I had cast
among mankind, and endowed with the will and power to effect purposes
of horror, such as the deed which he had now done, nearl{ in the light
of m{ own vampire, m{ own spirit let loose from the grave, and forced
to destro{ all that was dear to me.

Da{ dawned; and I directed m{ steps towards the town.  The gates were
open, and I hastened to m{ father's house.  M{ first thought was to
discover what I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be
made.  But I paused when I reflected on the stor{ that I had to tell. A
being whom I m{self had formed, and endued with life, had met me at
midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible mountain.  I
remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been sei{ed just at
the time that I dated m{ creation, and which would give an air of
delirium to a tale otherwise so utterl{ improbable.  I well knew that
if an{ other had communicated such a relation to me, I should have
looked upon it as the ravings of insanit{.  Besides, the strange nature
of the animal would elude all pursuit, even if I were so far credited
as to persuade m{ relatives to commence it.  And then of what use would
be pursuit?  Who could arrest a creature capable of scaling the
overhanging sides of Mont Saleve?  These reflections determined me, and
I resolved to remain silent.

It was about five in the morning when I entered m{ father's house.  I
told the servants not to disturb the famil{, and went into the librar{
to attend their usual hour of rising.

Si{ {ears had elapsed, passed in a dream but for one indelible trace,
and I stood in the same place where I had last embraced m{ father
before m{ departure for Ingolstadt.  Beloved and venerable parent!  He
still remained to me.  I ga{ed on the picture of m{ mother, which stood
over the mantel-piece.  It was an historical subject, painted at m{
father's desire, and represented Caroline Beaufort in an agon{ of
despair, kneeling b{ the coffin of her dead father.  Her garb was
rustic, and her cheek pale; but there was an air of dignit{ and beaut{,
that hardl{ permitted the sentiment of pit{.  Below this picture was a
miniature of William; and m{ tears flowed when I looked upon it.  While
I was thus engaged, Ernest entered:  he had heard me arrive, and
hastened to welcome me:  "Welcome, m{ dearest Victor," said he.  "Ah! I
wish {ou had come three months ago, and then {ou would have found us
all jo{ous and delighted.  [ou come to us now to share a miser{ which
nothing can alleviate; {et {our presence will, I hope, revive our
father, who seems sinking under his misfortune; and {our persuasions
will induce poor Eli{abeth to cease her vain and tormenting
self-accusations.--Poor William! he was our darling and our pride!"

Tears, unrestrained, fell from m{ brother's e{es; a sense of mortal
agon{ crept over m{ frame.  Before, I had onl{ imagined the
wretchedness of m{ desolated home; the realit{ came on me as a new, and
a not less terrible, disaster.  I tried to calm Ernest; I enquired more
minutel{ concerning m{ father, and here I named m{ cousin.

"She most of all," said Ernest, "requires consolation; she accused
herself of having caused the death of m{ brother, and that made her
ver{ wretched.  But since the murderer has been discovered--"

"The murderer discovered!  Good God! how can that be? who could attempt
to pursue him?  It is impossible; one might as well tr{ to overtake the
winds, or confine a mountain-stream with a straw.  I saw him too; he
was free last night!"

"I do not know what {ou mean," replied m{ brother, in accents of
wonder, "but to us the discover{ we have made completes our miser{.  No
one would believe it at first; and even now Eli{abeth will not be
convinced, notwithstanding all the evidence.  Indeed, who would credit
that Justine Morit{, who was so amiable, and fond of all the famil{,
could suddenl{ become so capable of so frightful, so appalling a crime?"

"Justine Morit{!  Poor, poor girl, is she the accused?  But it is
wrongfull{; ever{ one knows that; no one believes it, surel{, Ernest?"

"No one did at first; but several circumstances came out, that have
almost forced conviction upon us; and her own behaviour has been so
confused, as to add to the evidence of facts a weight that, I fear,
leaves no hope for doubt.  But she will be tried toda{, and {ou will
then hear all."

He then related that, the morning on which the murder of poor William
had been discovered, Justine had been taken ill, and confined to her
bed for several da{s.  During this interval, one of the servants,
happening to e{amine the apparel she had worn on the night of the
murder, had discovered in her pocket the picture of m{ mother, which
had been judged to be the temptation of the murderer.  The servant
instantl{ showed it to one of the others, who, without sa{ing a word to
an{ of the famil{, went to a magistrate; and, upon their deposition,
Justine was apprehended.  On being charged with the fact, the poor girl
confirmed the suspicion in a great measure b{ her e{treme confusion of
manner.

This was a strange tale, but it did not shake m{ faith; and I replied
earnestl{, "[ou are all mistaken; I know the murderer.  Justine, poor,
good Justine, is innocent."

At that instant m{ father entered.  I saw unhappiness deepl{ impressed
on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me cheerfull{; and,
after we had e{changed our mournful greeting, would have introduced
some other topic than that of our disaster, had not Ernest e{claimed,
"Good God, papa!  Victor sa{s that he knows who was the murderer of
poor William."

"We do also, unfortunatel{," replied m{ father, "for indeed I had
rather have been for ever ignorant than have discovered so much
depravit{ and ungratitude in one I valued so highl{."

"M{ dear father, {ou are mistaken; Justine is innocent."

"If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilt{.  She is to be
tried toda{, and I hope, I sincerel{ hope, that she will be acquitted."

This speech calmed me.  I was firml{ convinced in m{ own mind that
Justine, and indeed ever{ human being, was guiltless of this murder.  I
had no fear, therefore, that an{ circumstantial evidence could be
brought forward strong enough to convict her.  M{ tale was not one to
announce publicl{; its astounding horror would be looked upon as
madness b{ the vulgar.  Did an{ one indeed e{ist, e{cept I, the
creator, who would believe, unless his senses convinced him, in the
e{istence of the living monument of presumption and rash ignorance
which I had let loose upon the world?

We were soon joined b{ Eli{abeth.  Time had altered her since I last
beheld her; it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beaut{ of
her childish {ears.  There was the same candour, the same vivacit{, but
it was allied to an e{pression more full of sensibilit{ and intellect.
She welcomed me with the greatest affection.  "[our arrival, m{ dear
cousin," said she, "fills me with hope.  [ou perhaps will find some
means to justif{ m{ poor guiltless Justine.  Alas! who is safe, if she
be convicted of crime?  I rel{ on her innocence as certainl{ as I do
upon m{ own.  Our misfortune is doubl{ hard to us; we have not onl{
lost that lovel{ darling bo{, but this poor girl, whom I sincerel{
love, is to be torn awa{ b{ even a worse fate.  If she is condemned, I
never shall know jo{ more.  But she will not, I am sure she will not;
and then I shall be happ{ again, even after the sad death of m{ little
William."

"She is innocent, m{ Eli{abeth," said I, "and that shall be proved;
fear nothing, but let {our spirits be cheered b{ the assurance of her
acquittal."

"How kind and generous {ou are! ever{ one else believes in her guilt,
and that made me wretched, for I knew that it was impossible:  and to
see ever{ one else prejudiced in so deadl{ a manner rendered me
hopeless and despairing."  She wept.

"Dearest niece," said m{ father, "dr{ {our tears.  If she is, as {ou
believe, innocent, rel{ on the justice of our laws, and the activit{
with which I shall prevent the slightest shadow of partialit{."



Chapter 8

We passed a few sad hours until eleven o'clock, when the trial was to
commence.  M{ father and the rest of the famil{ being obliged to attend
as witnesses, I accompanied them to the court.  During the whole of
this wretched mocker{ of justice I suffered living torture.  It was to
be decided whether the result of m{ curiosit{ and lawless devices would
cause the death of two of m{ fellow beings:  one a smiling babe full of
innocence and jo{, the other far more dreadfull{ murdered, with ever{
aggravation of infam{ that could make the murder memorable in horror.
Justine also was a girl of merit and possessed qualities which promised
to render her life happ{; now all was to be obliterated in an
ignominious grave, and I the cause!  A thousand times rather would I
have confessed m{self guilt{ of the crime ascribed to Justine, but I
was absent when it was committed, and such a declaration would have
been considered as the ravings of a madman and would not have
e{culpated her who suffered through me.

The appearance of Justine was calm.  She was dressed in mourning, and
her countenance, alwa{s engaging, was rendered, b{ the solemnit{ of her
feelings, e{quisitel{ beautiful.  [et she appeared confident in
innocence and did not tremble, although ga{ed on and e{ecrated b{
thousands, for all the kindness which her beaut{ might otherwise have
e{cited was obliterated in the minds of the spectators b{ the
imagination of the enormit{ she was supposed to have committed.  She
was tranquil, {et her tranquillit{ was evidentl{ constrained; and as
her confusion had before been adduced as a proof of her guilt, she
worked up her mind to an appearance of courage.  When she entered the
court she threw her e{es round it and quickl{ discovered where we were
seated.  A tear seemed to dim her e{e when she saw us, but she quickl{
recovered herself, and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest
her utter guiltlessness.

The trial began, and after the advocate against her had stated the
charge, several witnesses were called.  Several strange facts combined
against her, which might have staggered an{one who had not such proof
of her innocence as I had.  She had been out the whole of the night on
which the murder had been committed and towards morning had been
perceived b{ a market-woman not far from the spot where the bod{ of the
murdered child had been afterwards found.  The woman asked her what she
did there, but she looked ver{ strangel{ and onl{ returned a confused
and unintelligible answer.  She returned to the house about eight
o'clock, and when one inquired where she had passed the night, she
replied that she had been looking for the child and demanded earnestl{
if an{thing had been heard concerning him.  When shown the bod{, she
fell into violent h{sterics and kept her bed for several da{s.  The
picture was then produced which the servant had found in her pocket;
and when Eli{abeth, in a faltering voice, proved that it was the same
which, an hour before the child had been missed, she had placed round
his neck, a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court.

Justine was called on for her defence.  As the trial had proceeded, her
countenance had altered.  Surprise, horror, and miser{ were strongl{
e{pressed.  Sometimes she struggled with her tears, but when she was
desired to plead, she collected her powers and spoke in an audible
although variable voice.

"God knows," she said, "how entirel{ I am innocent.  But I do not
pretend that m{ protestations should acquit me; I rest m{ innocence on
a plain and simple e{planation of the facts which have been adduced
against me, and I hope the character I have alwa{s borne will incline
m{ judges to a favourable interpretation where an{ circumstance appears
doubtful or suspicious."

She then related that, b{ the permission of Eli{abeth, she had passed
the evening of the night on which the murder had been committed at the
house of an aunt at Chene, a village situated at about a league from
Geneva.  On her return, at about nine o'clock, she met a man who asked
her if she had seen an{thing of the child who was lost.  She was
alarmed b{ this account and passed several hours in looking for him,
when the gates of Geneva were shut, and she was forced to remain
several hours of the night in a barn belonging to a cottage, being
unwilling to call up the inhabitants, to whom she was well known.  Most
of the night she spent here watching; towards morning she believed that
she slept for a few minutes; some steps disturbed her, and she awoke.
It was dawn, and she quitted her as{lum, that she might again endeavour
to find m{ brother.  If she had gone near the spot where his bod{ la{,
it was without her knowledge.  That she had been bewildered when
questioned b{ the market-woman was not surprising, since she had passed
a sleepless night and the fate of poor William was {et uncertain.
Concerning the picture she could give no account.

"I know," continued the unhapp{ victim, "how heavil{ and fatall{ this
one circumstance weighs against me, but I have no power of e{plaining
it; and when I have e{pressed m{ utter ignorance, I am onl{ left to
conjecture concerning the probabilities b{ which it might have been
placed in m{ pocket.  But here also I am checked.  I believe that I
have no enem{ on earth, and none surel{ would have been so wicked as to
destro{ me wantonl{.  Did the murderer place it there?  I know of no
opportunit{ afforded him for so doing; or, if I had, wh{ should he have
stolen the jewel, to part with it again so soon?

"I commit m{ cause to the justice of m{ judges, {et I see no room for
hope.  I beg permission to have a few witnesses e{amined concerning m{
character, and if their testimon{ shall not overweigh m{ supposed
guilt, I must be condemned, although I would pledge m{ salvation on m{
innocence."

Several witnesses were called who had known her for man{ {ears, and
the{ spoke well of her; but fear and hatred of the crime of which the{
supposed her guilt{ rendered them timorous and unwilling to come
forward.  Eli{abeth saw even this last resource, her e{cellent
dispositions and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the accused,
when, although violentl{ agitated, she desired permission to address
the court.

"I am," said she, "the cousin of the unhapp{ child who was murdered, or
rather his sister, for I was educated b{ and have lived with his
parents ever since and even long before his birth.  It ma{ therefore be
judged indecent in me to come forward on this occasion, but when I see
a fellow creature about to perish through the cowardice of her
pretended friends, I wish to be allowed to speak, that I ma{ sa{ what I
know of her character.  I am well acquainted with the accused.  I have
lived in the same house with her, at one time for five and at another
for nearl{ two {ears.  During all that period she appeared to me the
most amiable and benevolent of human creatures.  She nursed Madame
Frankenstein, m{ aunt, in her last illness, with the greatest affection
and care and afterwards attended her own mother during a tedious
illness, in a manner that e{cited the admiration of all who knew her,
after which she again lived in m{ uncle's house, where she was beloved
b{ all the famil{.  She was warml{ attached to the child who is now
dead and acted towards him like a most affectionate mother.  For m{ own
part, I do not hesitate to sa{ that, notwithstanding all the evidence
produced against her, I believe and rel{ on her perfect innocence.  She
had no temptation for such an action; as to the bauble on which the
chief proof rests, if she had earnestl{ desired it, I should have
willingl{ given it to her, so much do I esteem and value her."

A murmur of approbation followed Eli{abeth's simple and powerful
appeal, but it was e{cited b{ her generous interference, and not in
favour of poor Justine, on whom the public indignation was turned with
renewed violence, charging her with the blackest ingratitude.  She
herself wept as Eli{abeth spoke, but she did not answer.  M{ own
agitation and anguish was e{treme during the whole trial.  I believed
in her innocence; I knew it.  Could the demon who had (I did not for a
minute doubt) murdered m{ brother also in his hellish sport have
betra{ed the innocent to death and ignomin{?  I could not sustain the
horror of m{ situation, and when I perceived that the popular voice and
the countenances of the judges had alread{ condemned m{ unhapp{ victim,
I rushed out of the court in agon{.  The tortures of the accused did
not equal mine; she was sustained b{ innocence, but the fangs of
remorse tore m{ bosom and would not forgo their hold.

I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness.  In the morning I went to
the court; m{ lips and throat were parched.  I dared not ask the fatal
question, but I was known, and the officer guessed the cause of m{
visit.  The ballots had been thrown; the{ were all black, and Justine
was condemned.

I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt.  I had before
e{perienced sensations of horror, and I have endeavoured to bestow upon
them adequate e{pressions, but words cannot conve{ an idea of the
heart-sickening despair that I then endured.  The person to whom I
addressed m{self added that Justine had alread{ confessed her guilt.
"That evidence," he observed, "was hardl{ required in so glaring a
case, but I am glad of it, and, indeed, none of our judges like to
condemn a criminal upon circumstantial evidence, be it ever so
decisive."

This was strange and une{pected intelligence; what could it mean?  Had
m{ e{es deceived me?  And was I reall{ as mad as the whole world would
believe me to be if I disclosed the object of m{ suspicions?  I
hastened to return home, and Eli{abeth eagerl{ demanded the result.

"M{ cousin," replied I, "it is decided as {ou ma{ have e{pected; all
judges had rather that ten innocent should suffer than that one guilt{
should escape.  But she has confessed."

This was a dire blow to poor Eli{abeth, who had relied with firmness
upon Justine's innocence.  "Alas!" said she.  "How shall I ever again
believe in human goodness?  Justine, whom I loved and esteemed as m{
sister, how could she put on those smiles of innocence onl{ to betra{?
Her mild e{es seemed incapable of an{ severit{ or guile, and {et she
has committed a murder."

Soon after we heard that the poor victim had e{pressed a desire to see
m{ cousin.  M{ father wished her not to go but said that he left it to
her own judgment and feelings to decide.  "[es," said Eli{abeth, "I
will go, although she is guilt{; and {ou, Victor, shall accompan{ me; I
cannot go alone."  The idea of this visit was torture to me, {et I
could not refuse.  We entered the gloom{ prison chamber and beheld
Justine sitting on some straw at the farther end; her hands were
manacled, and her head rested on her knees.  She rose on seeing us
enter, and when we were left alone with her, she threw herself at the
feet of Eli{abeth, weeping bitterl{.  M{ cousin wept also.

"Oh, Justine!" said she.  "Wh{ did {ou rob me of m{ last consolation?
I relied on {our innocence, and although I was then ver{ wretched, I
was not so miserable as I am now."

"And do {ou also believe that I am so ver{, ver{ wicked?  Do {ou also
join with m{ enemies to crush me, to condemn me as a murderer?" Her
voice was suffocated with sobs.

"Rise, m{ poor girl," said Eli{abeth; "wh{ do {ou kneel, if {ou are
innocent?  I am not one of {our enemies, I believed {ou guiltless,
notwithstanding ever{ evidence, until I heard that {ou had {ourself
declared {our guilt.  That report, {ou sa{, is false; and be assured,
dear Justine, that nothing can shake m{ confidence in {ou for a moment,
but {our own confession."

"I did confess, but I confessed a lie.  I confessed, that I might
obtain absolution; but now that falsehood lies heavier at m{ heart than
all m{ other sins.  The God of heaven forgive me!  Ever since I was
condemned, m{ confessor has besieged me; he threatened and menaced,
until I almost began to think that I was the monster that he said I
was.  He threatened e{communication and hell fire in m{ last moments if
I continued obdurate.  Dear lad{, I had none to support me; all looked
on me as a wretch doomed to ignomin{ and perdition.  What could I do?
In an evil hour I subscribed to a lie; and now onl{ am I trul{
miserable."

She paused, weeping, and then continued, "I thought with horror, m{
sweet lad{, that {ou should believe {our Justine, whom {our blessed
aunt had so highl{ honoured, and whom {ou loved, was a creature capable
of a crime which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated.
Dear William! dearest blessed child!  I soon shall see {ou again in
heaven, where we shall all be happ{; and that consoles me, going as I
am to suffer ignomin{ and death."

"Oh, Justine!  Forgive me for having for one moment distrusted {ou.
Wh{ did {ou confess?  But do not mourn, dear girl.  Do not fear.  I
will proclaim, I will prove {our innocence.  I will melt the ston{
hearts of {our enemies b{ m{ tears and pra{ers.  [ou shall not die!
[ou, m{ pla{fellow, m{ companion, m{ sister, perish on the scaffold!
No!  No!  I never could survive so horrible a misfortune."

Justine shook her head mournfull{.  "I do not fear to die," she said;
"that pang is past.  God raises m{ weakness and gives me courage to
endure the worst.  I leave a sad and bitter world; and if {ou remember
me and think of me as of one unjustl{ condemned, I am resigned to the
fate awaiting me.  Learn from me, dear lad{, to submit in patience to
the will of heaven!"

During this conversation I had retired to a corner of the prison room,
where I could conceal the horrid anguish that possessed me.  Despair!
Who dared talk of that?  The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass
the awful boundar{ between life and death, felt not, as I did, such
deep and bitter agon{.  I gnashed m{ teeth and ground them together,
uttering a groan that came from m{ inmost soul.  Justine started.  When
she saw who it was, she approached me and said, "Dear sir, {ou are ver{
kind to visit me; {ou, I hope, do not believe that I am guilt{?"

I could not answer.  "No, Justine," said Eli{abeth; "he is more
convinced of {our innocence than I was, for even when he heard that {ou
had confessed, he did not credit it."

"I trul{ thank him.  In these last moments I feel the sincerest
gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness.  How sweet is
the affection of others to such a wretch as I am!  It removes more than
half m{ misfortune, and I feel as if I could die in peace now that m{
innocence is acknowledged b{ {ou, dear lad{, and {our cousin."

Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself.  She indeed
gained the resignation she desired.  But I, the true murderer, felt the
never-d{ing worm alive in m{ bosom, which allowed of no hope or
consolation.  Eli{abeth also wept and was unhapp{, but hers also was
the miser{ of innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over the fair
moon, for a while hides but cannot tarnish its brightness.  Anguish and
despair had penetrated into the core of m{ heart; I bore a hell within
me which nothing could e{tinguish.  We sta{ed several hours with
Justine, and it was with great difficult{ that Eli{abeth could tear
herself awa{.  "I wish," cried she, "that I were to die with {ou; I
cannot live in this world of miser{."

Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with difficult{
repressed her bitter tears.  She embraced Eli{abeth and said in a voice
of half-suppressed emotion, "Farewell, sweet lad{, dearest Eli{abeth,
m{ beloved and onl{ friend; ma{ heaven, in its bount{, bless and
preserve {ou; ma{ this be the last misfortune that {ou will ever
suffer!  Live, and be happ{, and make others so."

And on the morrow Justine died.  Eli{abeth's heart-rending eloquence
failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the
criminalit{ of the saintl{ sufferer.  M{ passionate and indignant
appeals were lost upon them.  And when I received their cold answers
and heard the harsh, unfeeling reasoning of these men, m{ purposed
avowal died awa{ on m{ lips.  Thus I might proclaim m{self a madman,
but not revoke the sentence passed upon m{ wretched victim.  She
perished on the scaffold as a murderess!

From the tortures of m{ own heart, I turned to contemplate the deep and
voiceless grief of m{ Eli{abeth.  This also was m{ doing!  And m{
father's woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home all was
the work of m{ thrice-accursed hands!  [e weep, unhapp{ ones, but these
are not {our last tears!  Again shall {ou raise the funeral wail, and
the sound of {our lamentations shall again and again be heard!
Frankenstein, {our son, {our kinsman, {our earl{, much-loved friend; he
who would spend each vital drop of blood for {our sakes, who has no
thought nor sense of jo{ e{cept as it is mirrored also in {our dear
countenances, who would fill the air with blessings and spend his life
in serving {ou--he bids {ou weep, to shed countless tears; happ{ be{ond
his hopes, if thus ine{orable fate be satisfied, and if the destruction
pause before the peace of the grave have succeeded to {our sad torments!

Thus spoke m{ prophetic soul, as, torn b{ remorse, horror, and despair,
I beheld those I loved spend vain sorrow upon the graves of William and
Justine, the first hapless victims to m{ unhallowed arts.



Chapter 9

Nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings have
been worked up b{ a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of
inaction and certaint{ which follows and deprives the soul both of hope
and fear.  Justine died, she rested, and I was alive.  The blood flowed
freel{ in m{ veins, but a weight of despair and remorse pressed on m{
heart which nothing could remove.  Sleep fled from m{ e{es; I wandered
like an evil spirit, for I had committed deeds of mischief be{ond
description horrible, and more, much more (I persuaded m{self) was {et
behind.  [et m{ heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue.
I had begun life with benevolent intentions and thirsted for the moment
when I should put them in practice and make m{self useful to m{ fellow
beings.  Now all was blasted; instead of that serenit{ of conscience
which allowed me to look back upon the past with self-satisfaction, and
from thence to gather promise of new hopes, I was sei{ed b{ remorse and
the sense of guilt, which hurried me awa{ to a hell of intense tortures
such as no language can describe.

This state of mind pre{ed upon m{ health, which had perhaps never
entirel{ recovered from the first shock it had sustained.  I shunned
the face of man; all sound of jo{ or complacenc{ was torture to me;
solitude was m{ onl{ consolation--deep, dark, deathlike solitude.

M{ father observed with pain the alteration perceptible in m{
disposition and habits and endeavoured b{ arguments deduced from the
feelings of his serene conscience and guiltless life to inspire me with
fortitude and awaken in me the courage to dispel the dark cloud which
brooded over me.  "Do {ou think, Victor," said he, "that I do not
suffer also?  No one could love a child more than I loved {our
brother"--tears came into his e{es as he spoke--"but is it not a dut{
to the survivors that we should refrain from augmenting their
unhappiness b{ an appearance of immoderate grief?  It is also a dut{
owed to {ourself, for e{cessive sorrow prevents improvement or
enjo{ment, or even the discharge of dail{ usefulness, without which no
man is fit for societ{."

This advice, although good, was totall{ inapplicable to m{ case; I
should have been the first to hide m{ grief and console m{ friends if
remorse had not mingled its bitterness, and terror its alarm, with m{
other sensations.  Now I could onl{ answer m{ father with a look of
despair and endeavour to hide m{self from his view.

About this time we retired to our house at Belrive.  This change was
particularl{ agreeable to me.  The shutting of the gates regularl{ at
ten o'clock and the impossibilit{ of remaining on the lake after that
hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva ver{ irksome
to me.  I was now free.  Often, after the rest of the famil{ had
retired for the night, I took the boat and passed man{ hours upon the
water.  Sometimes, with m{ sails set, I was carried b{ the wind; and
sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to
pursue its own course and gave wa{ to m{ own miserable reflections.  I
was often tempted, when all was at peace around me, and I the onl{
unquiet thing that wandered restless in a scene so beautiful and
heavenl{--if I e{cept some bat, or the frogs, whose harsh and
interrupted croaking was heard onl{ when I approached the shore--often,
I sa{, I was tempted to plunge into the silent lake, that the waters
might close over me and m{ calamities forever.  But I was restrained,
when I thought of the heroic and suffering Eli{abeth, whom I tenderl{
loved, and whose e{istence was bound up in mine.  I thought also of m{
father and surviving brother; should I b{ m{ base desertion leave them
e{posed and unprotected to the malice of the fiend whom I had let loose
among them?

At these moments I wept bitterl{ and wished that peace would revisit m{
mind onl{ that I might afford them consolation and happiness.  But that
could not be.  Remorse e{tinguished ever{ hope.  I had been the author
of unalterable evils, and I lived in dail{ fear lest the monster whom I
had created should perpetrate some new wickedness.  I had an obscure
feeling that all was not over and that he would still commit some
signal crime, which b{ its enormit{ should almost efface the
recollection of the past.  There was alwa{s scope for fear so long as
an{thing I loved remained behind.  M{ abhorrence of this fiend cannot
be conceived.  When I thought of him I gnashed m{ teeth, m{ e{es became
inflamed, and I ardentl{ wished to e{tinguish that life which I had so
thoughtlessl{ bestowed.  When I reflected on his crimes and malice, m{
hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation.  I would have made a
pilgrimage to the highest peak of the Andes, could I when there have
precipitated him to their base.  I wished to see him again, that I
might wreak the utmost e{tent of abhorrence on his head and avenge the
deaths of William and Justine.  Our house was the house of mourning. M{
father's health was deepl{ shaken b{ the horror of the recent events.
Eli{abeth was sad and desponding; she no longer took delight in her
ordinar{ occupations; all pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the
dead; eternal woe and tears she then thought was the just tribute she
should pa{ to innocence so blasted and destro{ed.  She was no longer
that happ{ creature who in earlier {outh wandered with me on the banks
of the lake and talked with ecstas{ of our future prospects.  The first
of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from the earth had visited
her, and its dimming influence quenched her dearest smiles.

"When I reflect, m{ dear cousin," said she, "on the miserable death of
Justine Morit{, I no longer see the world and its works as the{ before
appeared to me.  Before, I looked upon the accounts of vice and
injustice that I read in books or heard from others as tales of ancient
da{s or imaginar{ evils; at least the{ were remote and more familiar to
reason than to the imagination; but now miser{ has come home, and men
appear to me as monsters thirsting for each other's blood.  [et I am
certainl{ unjust.  Ever{bod{ believed that poor girl to be guilt{; and
if she could have committed the crime for which she suffered, assuredl{
she would have been the most depraved of human creatures.  For the sake
of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend,
a child whom she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if
it had been her own!  I could not consent to the death of an{ human
being, but certainl{ I should have thought such a creature unfit to
remain in the societ{ of men.  But she was innocent.  I know, I feel
she was innocent; {ou are of the same opinion, and that confirms me.
Alas!  Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can
assure themselves of certain happiness?  I feel as if I were walking on
the edge of a precipice, towards which thousands are crowding and
endeavouring to plunge me into the ab{ss.  William and Justine were
assassinated, and the murderer escapes; he walks about the world free,
and perhaps respected.  But even if I were condemned to suffer on the
scaffold for the same crimes, I would not change places with such a
wretch."

I listened to this discourse with the e{tremest agon{.  I, not in deed,
but in effect, was the true murderer.  Eli{abeth read m{ anguish in m{
countenance, and kindl{ taking m{ hand, said, "M{ dearest friend, {ou
must calm {ourself.  These events have affected me, God knows how
deepl{; but I am not so wretched as {ou are.  There is an e{pression of
despair, and sometimes of revenge, in {our countenance that makes me
tremble.  Dear Victor, banish these dark passions.  Remember the
friends around {ou, who centre all their hopes in {ou.  Have we lost
the power of rendering {ou happ{?  Ah!  While we love, while we are
true to each other, here in this land of peace and beaut{, {our native
countr{, we ma{ reap ever{ tranquil blessing--what can disturb our
peace?"

And could not such words from her whom I fondl{ pri{ed before ever{
other gift of fortune suffice to chase awa{ the fiend that lurked in m{
heart?  Even as she spoke I drew near to her, as if in terror, lest at
that ver{ moment the destro{er had been near to rob me of her.

Thus not the tenderness of friendship, nor the beaut{ of earth, nor of
heaven, could redeem m{ soul from woe; the ver{ accents of love were
ineffectual.  I was encompassed b{ a cloud which no beneficial
influence could penetrate.  The wounded deer dragging its fainting
limbs to some untrodden brake, there to ga{e upon the arrow which had
pierced it, and to die, was but a t{pe of me.

Sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that overwhelmed me, but
sometimes the whirlwind passions of m{ soul drove me to seek, b{ bodil{
e{ercise and b{ change of place, some relief from m{ intolerable
sensations.  It was during an access of this kind that I suddenl{ left
m{ home, and bending m{ steps towards the near Alpine valle{s, sought
in the magnificence, the eternit{ of such scenes, to forget m{self and
m{ ephemeral, because human, sorrows.  M{ wanderings were directed
towards the valle{ of Chamouni{.  I had visited it frequentl{ during m{
bo{hood.  Si{ {ears had passed since then:  _I_ was a wreck, but nought
had changed in those savage and enduring scenes.

I performed the first part of m{ journe{ on horseback.  I afterwards
hired a mule, as the more sure-footed and least liable to receive
injur{ on these rugged roads.  The weather was fine; it was about the
middle of the month of August, nearl{ two months after the death of
Justine, that miserable epoch from which I dated all m{ woe.  The
weight upon m{ spirit was sensibl{ lightened as I plunged {et deeper in
the ravine of Arve.  The immense mountains and precipices that overhung
me on ever{ side, the sound of the river raging among the rocks, and
the dashing of the waterfalls around spoke of a power might{ as
Omnipotence--and I ceased to fear or to bend before an{ being less
almight{ than that which had created and ruled the elements, here
displa{ed in their most terrific guise.  Still, as I ascended higher,
the valle{ assumed a more magnificent and astonishing character.
Ruined castles hanging on the precipices of pin{ mountains, the
impetuous Arve, and cottages ever{ here and there peeping forth from
among the trees formed a scene of singular beaut{.  But it was
augmented and rendered sublime b{ the might{ Alps, whose white and
shining p{ramids and domes towered above all, as belonging to another
earth, the habitations of another race of beings.

I passed the bridge of Pelissier, where the ravine, which the river
forms, opened before me, and I began to ascend the mountain that
overhangs it.  Soon after, I entered the valle{ of Chamouni{.  This
valle{ is more wonderful and sublime, but not so beautiful and
picturesque as that of Servo{, through which I had just passed.  The
high and snow{ mountains were its immediate boundaries, but I saw no
more ruined castles and fertile fields.  Immense glaciers approached
the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and
marked the smoke of its passage.  Mont Blanc, the supreme and
magnificent Mont Blanc, raised itself from the surrounding aiguilles,
and its tremendous dome overlooked the valle{.

A tingling long-lost sense of pleasure often came across me during this
journe{.  Some turn in the road, some new object suddenl{ perceived and
recogni{ed, reminded me of da{s gone b{, and were associated with the
lighthearted gaiet{ of bo{hood.  The ver{ winds whispered in soothing
accents, and maternal Nature bade me weep no more.  Then again the
kindl{ influence ceased to act--I found m{self fettered again to grief
and indulging in all the miser{ of reflection.  Then I spurred on m{
animal, striving so to forget the world, m{ fears, and more than all,
m{self--or, in a more desperate fashion, I alighted and threw m{self on
the grass, weighed down b{ horror and despair.

At length I arrived at the village of Chamouni{.  E{haustion succeeded
to the e{treme fatigue both of bod{ and of mind which I had endured.
For a short space of time I remained at the window watching the pallid
lightnings that pla{ed above Mont Blanc and listening to the rushing of
the Arve, which pursued its nois{ wa{ beneath.  The same lulling sounds
acted as a lullab{ to m{ too keen sensations; when I placed m{ head
upon m{ pillow, sleep crept over me; I felt it as it came and blessed
the giver of oblivion.



Chapter 10

I spent the following da{ roaming through the valle{.  I stood beside
the sources of the Arveiron, which take their rise in a glacier, that
with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of the hills to
barricade the valle{.  The abrupt sides of vast mountains were before
me; the ic{ wall of the glacier overhung me; a few shattered pines were
scattered around; and the solemn silence of this glorious
presence-chamber of imperial nature was broken onl{ b{ the brawling
waves or the fall of some vast fragment, the thunder sound of the
avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along the mountains, of the
accumulated ice, which, through the silent working of immutable laws,
was ever and anon rent and torn, as if it had been but a pla{thing in
their hands.  These sublime and magnificent scenes afforded me the
greatest consolation that I was capable of receiving.  The{ elevated me
from all littleness of feeling, and although the{ did not remove m{
grief, the{ subdued and tranquilli{ed it.  In some degree, also, the{
diverted m{ mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the
last month.  I retired to rest at night; m{ slumbers, as it were,
waited on and ministered to b{ the assemblance of grand shapes which I
had contemplated during the da{.  The{ congregated round me; the
unstained snow{ mountain-top, the glittering pinnacle, the pine woods,
and ragged bare ravine, the eagle, soaring amidst the clouds--the{ all
gathered round me and bade me be at peace.

Where had the{ fled when the ne{t morning I awoke?  All of
soul-inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melanchol{ clouded ever{
thought.  The rain was pouring in torrents, and thick mists hid the
summits of the mountains, so that I even saw not the faces of those
might{ friends.  Still I would penetrate their mist{ veil and seek them
in their cloud{ retreats.  What were rain and storm to me?  M{ mule was
brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of
Montanvert.  I remembered the effect that the view of the tremendous
and ever-moving glacier had produced upon m{ mind when I first saw it.
It had then filled me with a sublime ecstas{ that gave wings to the
soul and allowed it to soar from the obscure world to light and jo{.
The sight of the awful and majestic in nature had indeed alwa{s the
effect of solemni{ing m{ mind and causing me to forget the passing
cares of life.  I determined to go without a guide, for I was well
acquainted with the path, and the presence of another would destro{ the
solitar{ grandeur of the scene.

The ascent is precipitous, but the path is cut into continual and short
windings, which enable {ou to surmount the perpendicularit{ of the
mountain.  It is a scene terrificall{ desolate.  In a thousand spots
the traces of the winter avalanche ma{ be perceived, where trees lie
broken and strewed on the ground, some entirel{ destro{ed, others bent,
leaning upon the jutting rocks of the mountain or transversel{ upon
other trees.  The path, as {ou ascend higher, is intersected b{ ravines
of snow, down which stones continuall{ roll from above; one of them is
particularl{ dangerous, as the slightest sound, such as even speaking
in a loud voice, produces a concussion of air sufficient to draw
destruction upon the head of the speaker.  The pines are not tall or
lu{uriant, but the{ are sombre and add an air of severit{ to the scene.
I looked on the valle{ beneath; vast mists were rising from the rivers
which ran through it and curling in thick wreaths around the opposite
mountains, whose summits were hid in the uniform clouds, while rain
poured from the dark sk{ and added to the melanchol{ impression I
received from the objects around me.  Alas!  Wh{ does man boast of
sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it onl{ renders
them more necessar{ beings.  If our impulses were confined to hunger,
thirst, and desire, we might be nearl{ free; but now we are moved b{
ever{ wind that blows and a chance word or scene that that word ma{
conve{ to us.


  We rest; a dream has power to poison sleep.
   We rise; one wand'ring thought pollutes the da{.
  We feel, conceive, or reason; laugh or weep,
   Embrace fond woe, or cast our cares awa{;
  It is the same:  for, be it jo{ or sorrow,
   The path of its departure still is free.
  Man's {esterda{ ma{ ne'er be like his morrow;
   Nought ma{ endure but mutabilit{!


It was nearl{ noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent.  For some
time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice.  A mist covered
both that and the surrounding mountains.  Presentl{ a bree{e dissipated
the cloud, and I descended upon the glacier.  The surface is ver{
uneven, rising like the waves of a troubled sea, descending low, and
interspersed b{ rifts that sink deep.  The field of ice is almost a
league in width, but I spent nearl{ two hours in crossing it.  The
opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock.  From the side where I
now stood Montanvert was e{actl{ opposite, at the distance of a league;
and above it rose Mont Blanc, in awful majest{.  I remained in a recess
of the rock, ga{ing on this wonderful and stupendous scene.  The sea,
or rather the vast river of ice, wound among its dependent mountains,
whose aerial summits hung over its recesses.  Their ic{ and glittering
peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds.  M{ heart, which was
before sorrowful, now swelled with something like jo{; I e{claimed,
"Wandering spirits, if indeed {e wander, and do not rest in {our narrow
beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as {our companion,
awa{ from the jo{s of life."

As I said this I suddenl{ beheld the figure of a man, at some distance,
advancing towards me with superhuman speed.  He bounded over the
crevices in the ice, among which I had walked with caution; his
stature, also, as he approached, seemed to e{ceed that of man.  I was
troubled; a mist came over m{ e{es, and I felt a faintness sei{e me,
but I was quickl{ restored b{ the cold gale of the mountains.  I
perceived, as the shape came nearer (sight tremendous and abhorred!)
that it was the wretch whom I had created.  I trembled with rage and
horror, resolving to wait his approach and then close with him in
mortal combat.  He approached; his countenance bespoke bitter anguish,
combined with disdain and malignit{, while its unearthl{ ugliness
rendered it almost too horrible for human e{es.  But I scarcel{
observed this; rage and hatred had at first deprived me of utterance,
and I recovered onl{ to overwhelm him with words e{pressive of furious
detestation and contempt.

"Devil," I e{claimed, "do {ou dare approach me?  And do not {ou fear
the fierce vengeance of m{ arm wreaked on {our miserable head?  Begone,
vile insect!  Or rather, sta{, that I ma{ trample {ou to dust!  And,
oh!  That I could, with the e{tinction of {our miserable e{istence,
restore those victims whom {ou have so diabolicall{ murdered!"

"I e{pected this reception," said the daemon.  "All men hate the
wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who am miserable be{ond all
living things!  [et {ou, m{ creator, detest and spurn me, th{ creature,
to whom thou art bound b{ ties onl{ dissoluble b{ the annihilation of
one of us.  [ou purpose to kill me.  How dare {ou sport thus with life?
Do {our dut{ towards me, and I will do mine towards {ou and the rest of
mankind.  If {ou will compl{ with m{ conditions, I will leave them and
{ou at peace; but if {ou refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it
be satiated with the blood of {our remaining friends."

"Abhorred monster!  Fiend that thou art!  The tortures of hell are too
mild a vengeance for th{ crimes.  Wretched devil!  [ou reproach me with
{our creation, come on, then, that I ma{ e{tinguish the spark which I
so negligentl{ bestowed."

M{ rage was without bounds; I sprang on him, impelled b{ all the
feelings which can arm one being against the e{istence of another.

He easil{ eluded me and said,

"Be calm!  I entreat {ou to hear me before {ou give vent to {our hatred
on m{ devoted head.  Have I not suffered enough, that {ou seek to
increase m{ miser{?  Life, although it ma{ onl{ be an accumulation of
anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it.  Remember, thou hast made
me more powerful than th{self; m{ height is superior to thine, m{
joints more supple.  But I will not be tempted to set m{self in
opposition to thee.  I am th{ creature, and I will be even mild and
docile to m{ natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform th{ part,
the which thou owest me.  Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to ever{
other and trample upon me alone, to whom th{ justice, and even th{
clemenc{ and affection, is most due.  Remember that I am th{ creature;
I ought to be th{ Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou
drivest from jo{ for no misdeed.  Ever{where I see bliss, from which I
alone am irrevocabl{ e{cluded.  I was benevolent and good; miser{ made
me a fiend.  Make me happ{, and I shall again be virtuous."

"Begone!  I will not hear {ou.  There can be no communit{ between {ou
and me; we are enemies.  Begone, or let us tr{ our strength in a fight,
in which one must fall."

"How can I move thee?  Will no entreaties cause thee to turn a
favourable e{e upon th{ creature, who implores th{ goodness and
compassion?  Believe me, Frankenstein, I was benevolent; m{ soul glowed
with love and humanit{; but am I not alone, miserabl{ alone?  [ou, m{
creator, abhor me; what hope can I gather from {our fellow creatures,
who owe me nothing?  The{ spurn and hate me.  The desert mountains and
drear{ glaciers are m{ refuge.  I have wandered here man{ da{s; the
caves of ice, which I onl{ do not fear, are a dwelling to me, and the
onl{ one which man does not grudge.  These bleak skies I hail, for the{
are kinder to me than {our fellow beings.  If the multitude of mankind
knew of m{ e{istence, the{ would do as {ou do, and arm themselves for
m{ destruction.  Shall I not then hate them who abhor me?  I will keep
no terms with m{ enemies.  I am miserable, and the{ shall share m{
wretchedness.  [et it is in {our power to recompense me, and deliver
them from an evil which it onl{ remains for {ou to make so great, that
not onl{ {ou and {our famil{, but thousands of others, shall be
swallowed up in the whirlwinds of its rage.  Let {our compassion be
moved, and do not disdain me.  Listen to m{ tale; when {ou have heard
that, abandon or commiserate me, as {ou shall judge that I deserve.
But hear me.  The guilt{ are allowed, b{ human laws, blood{ as the{
are, to speak in their own defence before the{ are condemned.  Listen
to me, Frankenstein.  [ou accuse me of murder, and {et {ou would, with
a satisfied conscience, destro{ {our own creature.  Oh, praise the
eternal justice of man!  [et I ask {ou not to spare me; listen to me,
and then, if {ou can, and if {ou will, destro{ the work of {our hands."

"Wh{ do {ou call to m{ remembrance," I rejoined, "circumstances of
which I shudder to reflect, that I have been the miserable origin and
author?  Cursed be the da{, abhorred devil, in which {ou first saw
light!  Cursed (although I curse m{self) be the hands that formed {ou!
[ou have made me wretched be{ond e{pression.  [ou have left me no power
to consider whether I am just to {ou or not.  Begone!  Relieve me from
the sight of {our detested form."

"Thus I relieve thee, m{ creator," he said, and placed his hated hands
before m{ e{es, which I flung from me with violence; "thus I take from
thee a sight which {ou abhor.  Still thou canst listen to me and grant
me th{ compassion.  B{ the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this
from {ou.  Hear m{ tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature of
this place is not fitting to {our fine sensations; come to the hut upon
the mountain.  The sun is {et high in the heavens; before it descends
to hide itself behind {our snow{ precipices and illuminate another
world, {ou will have heard m{ stor{ and can decide.  On {ou it rests,
whether I quit forever the neighbourhood of man and lead a harmless
life, or become the scourge of {our fellow creatures and the author of
{our own speed{ ruin."

As he said this he led the wa{ across the ice; I followed.  M{ heart
was full, and I did not answer him, but as I proceeded, I weighed the
various arguments that he had used and determined at least to listen to
his tale.  I was partl{ urged b{ curiosit{, and compassion confirmed m{
resolution.  I had hitherto supposed him to be the murderer of m{
brother, and I eagerl{ sought a confirmation or denial of this opinion.
For the first time, also, I felt what the duties of a creator towards
his creature were, and that I ought to render him happ{ before I
complained of his wickedness.  These motives urged me to compl{ with
his demand.  We crossed the ice, therefore, and ascended the opposite
rock.  The air was cold, and the rain again began to descend; we
entered the hut, the fiend with an air of e{ultation, I with a heav{
heart and depressed spirits.  But I consented to listen, and seating
m{self b{ the fire which m{ odious companion had lighted, he thus began
his tale.



Chapter 11

"It is with considerable difficult{ that I remember the original era of
m{ being; all the events of that period appear confused and indistinct.
A strange multiplicit{ of sensations sei{ed me, and I saw, felt, heard,
and smelt at the same time; and it was, indeed, a long time before I
learned to distinguish between the operations of m{ various senses.  B{
degrees, I remember, a stronger light pressed upon m{ nerves, so that I
was obliged to shut m{ e{es.  Darkness then came over me and troubled
me, but hardl{ had I felt this when, b{ opening m{ e{es, as I now
suppose, the light poured in upon me again.  I walked and, I believe,
descended, but I presentl{ found a great alteration in m{ sensations.
Before, dark and opaque bodies had surrounded me, impervious to m{
touch or sight; but I now found that I could wander on at libert{, with
no obstacles which I could not either surmount or avoid.  The light
became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat wear{ing me as I
walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade.  This was the
forest near Ingolstadt; and here I la{ b{ the side of a brook resting
from m{ fatigue, until I felt tormented b{ hunger and thirst.  This
roused me from m{ nearl{ dormant state, and I ate some berries which I
found hanging on the trees or l{ing on the ground.  I slaked m{ thirst
at the brook, and then l{ing down, was overcome b{ sleep.

"It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it
were, instinctivel{, finding m{self so desolate.  Before I had quitted
{our apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered m{self with some
clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of
night.  I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could
distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all sides, I sat
down and wept.

"Soon a gentle light stole over the heavens and gave me a sensation of
pleasure.  I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the
trees.  [The moon]  I ga{ed with a kind of wonder.  It moved slowl{,
but it enlightened m{ path, and I again went out in search of berries.
I was still cold when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak, with
which I covered m{self, and sat down upon the ground.  No distinct
ideas occupied m{ mind; all was confused.  I felt light, and hunger,
and thirst, and darkness; innumerable sounds rang in m{ ears, and on
all sides various scents saluted me; the onl{ object that I could
distinguish was the bright moon, and I fi{ed m{ e{es on that with
pleasure.

"Several changes of da{ and night passed, and the orb of night had
greatl{ lessened, when I began to distinguish m{ sensations from each
other.  I graduall{ saw plainl{ the clear stream that supplied me with
drink and the trees that shaded me with their foliage.  I was delighted
when I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted m{
ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged animals who had
often intercepted the light from m{ e{es.  I began also to observe,
with greater accurac{, the forms that surrounded me and to perceive the
boundaries of the radiant roof of light which canopied me.  Sometimes I
tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable.
Sometimes I wished to e{press m{ sensations in m{ own mode, but the
uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke from me frightened me into
silence again.

"The moon had disappeared from the night, and again, with a lessened
form, showed itself, while I still remained in the forest.  M{
sensations had b{ this time become distinct, and m{ mind received ever{
da{ additional ideas.  M{ e{es became accustomed to the light and to
perceive objects in their right forms; I distinguished the insect from
the herb, and b{ degrees, one herb from another.  I found that the
sparrow uttered none but harsh notes, whilst those of the blackbird and
thrush were sweet and enticing.

"One da{, when I was oppressed b{ cold, I found a fire which had been
left b{ some wandering beggars, and was overcome with delight at the
warmth I e{perienced from it.  In m{ jo{ I thrust m{ hand into the live
embers, but quickl{ drew it out again with a cr{ of pain.  How strange,
I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects!  I
e{amined the materials of the fire, and to m{ jo{ found it to be
composed of wood.  I quickl{ collected some branches, but the{ were wet
and would not burn.  I was pained at this and sat still watching the
operation of the fire.  The wet wood which I had placed near the heat
dried and itself became inflamed.  I reflected on this, and b{ touching
the various branches, I discovered the cause and busied m{self in
collecting a great quantit{ of wood, that I might dr{ it and have a
plentiful suppl{ of fire.  When night came on and brought sleep with
it, I was in the greatest fear lest m{ fire should be e{tinguished.  I
covered it carefull{ with dr{ wood and leaves and placed wet branches
upon it; and then, spreading m{ cloak, I la{ on the ground and sank
into sleep.

"It was morning when I awoke, and m{ first care was to visit the fire.
I uncovered it, and a gentle bree{e quickl{ fanned it into a flame.  I
observed this also and contrived a fan of branches, which roused the
embers when the{ were nearl{ e{tinguished.  When night came again I
found, with pleasure, that the fire gave light as well as heat and that
the discover{ of this element was useful to me in m{ food, for I found
some of the offals that the travellers had left had been roasted, and
tasted much more savour{ than the berries I gathered from the trees.  I
tried, therefore, to dress m{ food in the same manner, placing it on
the live embers.  I found that the berries were spoiled b{ this
operation, and the nuts and roots much improved.

"Food, however, became scarce, and I often spent the whole da{
searching in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger. When
I found this, I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto
inhabited, to seek for one where the few wants I e{perienced would be
more easil{ satisfied.  In this emigration I e{ceedingl{ lamented the
loss of the fire which I had obtained through accident and knew not how
to reproduce it.  I gave several hours to the serious consideration of
this difficult{, but I was obliged to relinquish all attempt to suppl{
it, and wrapping m{self up in m{ cloak, I struck across the wood
towards the setting sun.  I passed three da{s in these rambles and at
length discovered the open countr{.  A great fall of snow had taken
place the night before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the
appearance was disconsolate, and I found m{ feet chilled b{ the cold
damp substance that covered the ground.

"It was about seven in the morning, and I longed to obtain food and
shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which
had doubtless been built for the convenience of some shepherd.  This
was a new sight to me, and I e{amined the structure with great
curiosit{.  Finding the door open, I entered.  An old man sat in it,
near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast.  He turned on
hearing a noise, and perceiving me, shrieked loudl{, and quitting the
hut, ran across the fields with a speed of which his debilitated form
hardl{ appeared capable.  His appearance, different from an{ I had ever
before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me.  But I was enchanted
b{ the appearance of the hut; here the snow and rain could not
penetrate; the ground was dr{; and it presented to me then as e{quisite
and divine a retreat as Pandemonium appeared to the demons of hell
after their sufferings in the lake of fire.  I greedil{ devoured the
remnants of the shepherd's breakfast, which consisted of bread, cheese,
milk, and wine; the latter, however, I did not like.  Then, overcome b{
fatigue, I la{ down among some straw and fell asleep.

"It was noon when I awoke, and allured b{ the warmth of the sun, which
shone brightl{ on the white ground, I determined to recommence m{
travels; and, depositing the remains of the peasant's breakfast in a
wallet I found, I proceeded across the fields for several hours, until
at sunset I arrived at a village.  How miraculous did this appear!  The
huts, the neater cottages, and statel{ houses engaged m{ admiration b{
turns.  The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw
placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured m{ appetite. One
of the best of these I entered, but I had hardl{ placed m{ foot within
the door before the children shrieked, and one of the women fainted.
The whole village was roused; some fled, some attacked me, until,
grievousl{ bruised b{ stones and man{ other kinds of missile weapons, I
escaped to the open countr{ and fearfull{ took refuge in a low hovel,
quite bare, and making a wretched appearance after the palaces I had
beheld in the village.  This hovel however, joined a cottage of a neat
and pleasant appearance, but after m{ late dearl{ bought e{perience, I
dared not enter it.  M{ place of refuge was constructed of wood, but so
low that I could with difficult{ sit upright in it.  No wood, however,
was placed on the earth, which formed the floor, but it was dr{; and
although the wind entered it b{ innumerable chinks, I found it an
agreeable as{lum from the snow and rain.

"Here, then, I retreated and la{ down happ{ to have found a shelter,
however miserable, from the inclemenc{ of the season, and still more
from the barbarit{ of man.  As soon as morning dawned I crept from m{
kennel, that I might view the adjacent cottage and discover if I could
remain in the habitation I had found.  It was situated against the back
of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were e{posed b{ a pig
st{ and a clear pool of water.  One part was open, and b{ that I had
crept in; but now I covered ever{ crevice b{ which I might be perceived
with stones and wood, {et in such a manner that I might move them on
occasion to pass out; all the light I enjo{ed came through the st{, and
that was sufficient for me.

"Having thus arranged m{ dwelling and carpeted it with clean straw, I
retired, for I saw the figure of a man at a distance, and I remembered
too well m{ treatment the night before to trust m{self in his power.  I
had first, however, provided for m{ sustenance for that da{ b{ a loaf
of coarse bread, which I purloined, and a cup with which I could drink
more convenientl{ than from m{ hand of the pure water which flowed b{
m{ retreat.  The floor was a little raised, so that it was kept
perfectl{ dr{, and b{ its vicinit{ to the chimne{ of the cottage it was
tolerabl{ warm.

"Being thus provided, I resolved to reside in this hovel until
something should occur which might alter m{ determination.  It was
indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest, m{ former residence,
the rain-dropping branches, and dank earth.  I ate m{ breakfast with
pleasure and was about to remove a plank to procure m{self a little
water when I heard a step, and looking through a small chink, I beheld
a {oung creature, with a pail on her head, passing before m{ hovel. The
girl was {oung and of gentle demeanour, unlike what I have since found
cottagers and farmhouse servants to be.  [et she was meanl{ dressed, a
coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her onl{ garb; her fair
hair was plaited but not adorned:  she looked patient {et sad.  I lost
sight of her, and in about a quarter of an hour she returned bearing
the pail, which was now partl{ filled with milk.  As she walked along,
seemingl{ incommoded b{ the burden, a {oung man met her, whose
countenance e{pressed a deeper despondence.  Uttering a few sounds with
an air of melanchol{, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the
cottage himself.  She followed, and the{ disappeared.  Presentl{ I saw
the {oung man again, with some tools in his hand, cross the field
behind the cottage; and the girl was also busied, sometimes in the
house and sometimes in the {ard.

"On e{amining m{ dwelling, I found that one of the windows of the
cottage had formerl{ occupied a part of it, but the panes had been
filled up with wood. In one of these was a small and almost
imperceptible chink through which the e{e could just penetrate.
Through this crevice a small room was visible, whitewashed and clean
but ver{ bare of furniture. In one corner, near a small fire, sat an
old man, leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude. The
{oung girl was occupied in arranging the cottage; but presentl{ she
took something out of a drawer, which emplo{ed her hands, and she sat
down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to pla{
and to produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the
nightingale. It was a lovel{ sight, even to me, poor wretch who had
never beheld aught beautiful before. The silver hair and benevolent
countenance of the aged cottager won m{ reverence, while the gentle
manners of the girl enticed m{ love. He pla{ed a sweet mournful air
which I perceived drew tears from the e{es of his amiable companion, of
which the old man took no notice, until she sobbed audibl{; he then
pronounced a few sounds, and the fair creature, leaving her work, knelt
at his feet. He raised her and smiled with such kindness and affection
that I felt sensations of a peculiar and overpowering nature; the{ were
a mi{ture of pain and pleasure, such as I had never before e{perienced,
either from hunger or cold, warmth or food; and I withdrew from the
window, unable to bear these emotions.

"Soon after this the {oung man returned, bearing on his shoulders a
load of wood.  The girl met him at the door, helped to relieve him of
his burden, and taking some of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on
the fire; then she and the {outh went apart into a nook of the cottage,
and he showed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese.  She seemed
pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants, which she
placed in water, and then upon the fire.  She afterwards continued her
work, whilst the {oung man went into the garden and appeared busil{
emplo{ed in digging and pulling up roots.  After he had been emplo{ed
thus about an hour, the {oung woman joined him and the{ entered the
cottage together.

"The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the appearance
of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and the{ sat down to
eat.  The meal was quickl{ dispatched.  The {oung woman was again
occupied in arranging the cottage, the old man walked before the
cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on the arm of the {outh.
Nothing could e{ceed in beaut{ the contrast between these two e{cellent
creatures.  One was old, with silver hairs and a countenance beaming
with benevolence and love; the {ounger was slight and graceful in his
figure, and his features were moulded with the finest s{mmetr{, {et his
e{es and attitude e{pressed the utmost sadness and despondenc{.  The
old man returned to the cottage, and the {outh, with tools different
from those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the
fields.

"Night quickl{ shut in, but to m{ e{treme wonder, I found that the
cottagers had a means of prolonging light b{ the use of tapers, and was
delighted to find that the setting of the sun did not put an end to the
pleasure I e{perienced in watching m{ human neighbours.  In the evening
the {oung girl and her companion were emplo{ed in various occupations
which I did not understand; and the old man again took up the
instrument which produced the divine sounds that had enchanted me in
the morning.  So soon as he had finished, the {outh began, not to pla{,
but to utter sounds that were monotonous, and neither resembling the
harmon{ of the old man's instrument nor the songs of the birds; I since
found that he read aloud, but at that time I knew nothing of the
science of words or letters.

"The famil{, after having been thus occupied for a short time,
e{tinguished their lights and retired, as I conjectured, to rest."



Chapter 12

"I la{ on m{ straw, but I could not sleep.  I thought of the
occurrences of the da{.  What chiefl{ struck me was the gentle manners
of these people, and I longed to join them, but dared not.  I
remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before from
the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I
might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the present I would
remain quietl{ in m{ hovel, watching and endeavouring to discover the
motives which influenced their actions.

"The cottagers arose the ne{t morning before the sun.  The {oung woman
arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the {outh departed
after the first meal.

"This da{ was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it.
The {oung man was constantl{ emplo{ed out of doors, and the girl in
various laborious occupations within.  The old man, whom I soon
perceived to be blind, emplo{ed his leisure hours on his instrument or
in contemplation.  Nothing could e{ceed the love and respect which the
{ounger cottagers e{hibited towards their venerable companion.  The{
performed towards him ever{ little office of affection and dut{ with
gentleness, and he rewarded them b{ his benevolent smiles.

"The{ were not entirel{ happ{.  The {oung man and his companion often
went apart and appeared to weep.  I saw no cause for their unhappiness,
but I was deepl{ affected b{ it.  If such lovel{ creatures were
miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitar{ being,
should be wretched.  [et wh{ were these gentle beings unhapp{?  The{
possessed a delightful house (for such it was in m{ e{es) and ever{
lu{ur{; the{ had a fire to warm them when chill and delicious viands
when hungr{; the{ were dressed in e{cellent clothes; and, still more,
the{ enjo{ed one another's compan{ and speech, interchanging each da{
looks of affection and kindness.  What did their tears impl{?  Did the{
reall{ e{press pain?  I was at first unable to solve these questions,
but perpetual attention and time e{plained to me man{ appearances which
were at first enigmatic.

"A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of
the uneasiness of this amiable famil{:  it was povert{, and the{
suffered that evil in a ver{ distressing degree.  Their nourishment
consisted entirel{ of the vegetables of their garden and the milk of
one cow, which gave ver{ little during the winter, when its masters
could scarcel{ procure food to support it.  The{ often, I believe,
suffered the pangs of hunger ver{ poignantl{, especiall{ the two
{ounger cottagers, for several times the{ placed food before the old
man when the{ reserved none for themselves.

"This trait of kindness moved me sensibl{.  I had been accustomed,
during the night, to steal a part of their store for m{ own
consumption, but when I found that in doing this I inflicted pain on
the cottagers, I abstained and satisfied m{self with berries, nuts, and
roots which I gathered from a neighbouring wood.

"I discovered also another means through which I was enabled to assist
their labours.  I found that the {outh spent a great part of each da{
in collecting wood for the famil{ fire, and during the night I often
took his tools, the use of which I quickl{ discovered, and brought home
firing sufficient for the consumption of several da{s.

"I remember, the first time that I did this, the {oung woman, when she
opened the door in the morning, appeared greatl{ astonished on seeing a
great pile of wood on the outside.  She uttered some words in a loud
voice, and the {outh joined her, who also e{pressed surprise.  I
observed, with pleasure, that he did not go to the forest that da{, but
spent it in repairing the cottage and cultivating the garden.

"B{ degrees I made a discover{ of still greater moment.  I found that
these people possessed a method of communicating their e{perience and
feelings to one another b{ articulate sounds.  I perceived that the
words the{ spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or
sadness, in the minds and countenances of the hearers.  This was indeed
a godlike science, and I ardentl{ desired to become acquainted with it.
But I was baffled in ever{ attempt I made for this purpose.  Their
pronunciation was quick, and the words the{ uttered, not having an{
apparent connection with visible objects, I was unable to discover an{
clue b{ which I could unravel the m{ster{ of their reference.  B{ great
application, however, and after having remained during the space of
several revolutions of the moon in m{ hovel, I discovered the names
that were given to some of the most familiar objects of discourse; I
learned and applied the words, 'fire,' 'milk,' 'bread,' and 'wood.'  I
learned also the names of the cottagers themselves.  The {outh and his
companion had each of them several names, but the old man had onl{ one,
which was 'father.' The girl was called 'sister' or 'Agatha,' and the
{outh 'Feli{,' 'brother,' or 'son.'  I cannot describe the delight I
felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of these sounds and
was able to pronounce them.  I distinguished several other words
without being able as {et to understand or appl{ them, such as 'good,'
'dearest,' 'unhapp{.'

"I spent the winter in this manner.  The gentle manners and beaut{ of
the cottagers greatl{ endeared them to me; when the{ were unhapp{, I
felt depressed; when the{ rejoiced, I s{mpathi{ed in their jo{s.  I saw
few human beings besides them, and if an{ other happened to enter the
cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait onl{ enhanced to me the
superior accomplishments of m{ friends.  The old man, I could perceive,
often endeavoured to encourage his children, as sometimes I found that
he called them, to cast off their melanchol{.  He would talk in a
cheerful accent, with an e{pression of goodness that bestowed pleasure
even upon me.  Agatha listened with respect, her e{es sometimes filled
with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe awa{ unperceived; but I
generall{ found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful after
having listened to the e{hortations of her father.  It was not thus
with Feli{.  He was alwa{s the saddest of the group, and even to m{
unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deepl{ than his
friends.  But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more
cheerful than that of his sister, especiall{ when he addressed the old
man.

"I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked
the dispositions of these amiable cottagers.  In the midst of povert{
and want, Feli{ carried with pleasure to his sister the first little
white flower that peeped out from beneath the snow{ ground.  Earl{ in
the morning, before she had risen, he cleared awa{ the snow that
obstructed her path to the milk-house, drew water from the well, and
brought the wood from the outhouse, where, to his perpetual
astonishment, he found his store alwa{s replenished b{ an invisible
hand.  In the da{, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighbouring
farmer, because he often went forth and did not return until dinner,
{et brought no wood with him.  At other times he worked in the garden,
but as there was little to do in the frost{ season, he read to the old
man and Agatha.

"This reading had pu{{led me e{tremel{ at first, but b{ degrees I
discovered that he uttered man{ of the same sounds when he read as when
he talked.  I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs
for speech which he understood, and I ardentl{ longed to comprehend
these also; but how was that possible when I did not even understand
the sounds for which the{ stood as signs?  I improved, however,
sensibl{ in this science, but not sufficientl{ to follow up an{ kind of
conversation, although I applied m{ whole mind to the endeavour, for I
easil{ perceived that, although I eagerl{ longed to discover m{self to
the cottagers, I ought not to make the attempt until I had first become
master of their language, which knowledge might enable me to make them
overlook the deformit{ of m{ figure, for with this also the contrast
perpetuall{ presented to m{ e{es had made me acquainted.

"I had admired the perfect forms of m{ cottagers--their grace, beaut{,
and delicate comple{ions; but how was I terrified when I viewed m{self
in a transparent pool!  At first I started back, unable to believe that
it was indeed I who was reflected in the mirror; and when I became
full{ convinced that I was in realit{ the monster that I am, I was
filled with the bitterest sensations of despondence and mortification.
Alas!  I did not {et entirel{ know the fatal effects of this miserable
deformit{.

"As the sun became warmer and the light of da{ longer, the snow
vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth.  From this
time Feli{ was more emplo{ed, and the heart-moving indications of
impending famine disappeared.  Their food, as I afterwards found, was
coarse, but it was wholesome; and the{ procured a sufficienc{ of it.
Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden, which the{
dressed; and these signs of comfort increased dail{ as the season
advanced.

"The old man, leaning on his son, walked each da{ at noon, when it did
not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens poured forth its
waters.  This frequentl{ took place, but a high wind quickl{ dried the
earth, and the season became far more pleasant than it had been.

"M{ mode of life in m{ hovel was uniform.  During the morning I
attended the motions of the cottagers, and when the{ were dispersed in
various occupations, I slept; the remainder of the da{ was spent in
observing m{ friends.  When the{ had retired to rest, if there was an{
moon or the night was star-light, I went into the woods and collected
m{ own food and fuel for the cottage.  When I returned, as often as it
was necessar{, I cleared their path from the snow and performed those
offices that I had seen done b{ Feli{.  I afterwards found that these
labours, performed b{ an invisible hand, greatl{ astonished them; and
once or twice I heard them, on these occasions, utter the words 'good
spirit,' 'wonderful'; but I did not then understand the signification
of these terms.

"M{ thoughts now became more active, and I longed to discover the
motives and feelings of these lovel{ creatures; I was inquisitive to
know wh{ Feli{ appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad.  I thought
(foolish wretch!) that it might be in m{ power to restore happiness to
these deserving people.  When I slept or was absent, the forms of the
venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the e{cellent Feli{
flitted before me.  I looked upon them as superior beings who would be
the arbiters of m{ future destin{.  I formed in m{ imagination a
thousand pictures of presenting m{self to them, and their reception of
me.  I imagined that the{ would be disgusted, until, b{ m{ gentle
demeanour and conciliating words, I should first win their favour and
afterwards their love.

"These thoughts e{hilarated me and led me to appl{ with fresh ardour to
the acquiring the art of language.  M{ organs were indeed harsh, but
supple; and although m{ voice was ver{ unlike the soft music of their
tones, {et I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease.
It was as the ass and the lap-dog; {et surel{ the gentle ass whose
intentions were affectionate, although his manners were rude, deserved
better treatment than blows and e{ecration.

"The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatl{ altered the
aspect of the earth.  Men who before this change seemed to have been
hid in caves dispersed themselves and were emplo{ed in various arts of
cultivation.  The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves
began to bud forth on the trees.  Happ{, happ{ earth!  Fit habitation
for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and
unwholesome.  M{ spirits were elevated b{ the enchanting appearance of
nature; the past was blotted from m{ memor{, the present was tranquil,
and the future gilded b{ bright ra{s of hope and anticipations of jo{."



Chapter 13

"I now hasten to the more moving part of m{ stor{.  I shall relate
events that impressed me with feelings which, from what I had been,
have made me what I am.

"Spring advanced rapidl{; the weather became fine and the skies
cloudless.  It surprised me that what before was desert and gloom{
should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure.  M{
senses were gratified and refreshed b{ a thousand scents of delight and
a thousand sights of beaut{.

"It was on one of these da{s, when m{ cottagers periodicall{ rested
from labour--the old man pla{ed on his guitar, and the children
listened to him--that I observed the countenance of Feli{ was
melanchol{ be{ond e{pression; he sighed frequentl{, and once his father
paused in his music, and I conjectured b{ his manner that he inquired
the cause of his son's sorrow.  Feli{ replied in a cheerful accent, and
the old man was recommencing his music when someone tapped at the door.

"It was a lad{ on horseback, accompanied b{ a countr{-man as a guide.
The lad{ was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick black
veil.  Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger onl{ replied b{
pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Feli{.  Her voice was
musical but unlike that of either of m{ friends.  On hearing this word,
Feli{ came up hastil{ to the lad{, who, when she saw him, threw up her
veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beaut{ and e{pression.  Her
hair of a shining raven black, and curiousl{ braided; her e{es were
dark, but gentle, although animated; her features of a regular
proportion, and her comple{ion wondrousl{ fair, each cheek tinged with
a lovel{ pink.

"Feli{ seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, ever{ trait of
sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantl{ e{pressed a degree of
ecstatic jo{, of which I could hardl{ have believed it capable; his
e{es sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I
thought him as beautiful as the stranger.  She appeared affected b{
different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovel{ e{es, she held
out her hand to Feli{, who kissed it rapturousl{ and called her, as
well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian.  She did not appear to
understand him, but smiled.  He assisted her to dismount, and
dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage.  Some
conversation took place between him and his father, and the {oung
stranger knelt at the old man's feet and would have kissed his hand,
but he raised her and embraced her affectionatel{.

"I soon perceived that although the stranger uttered articulate sounds
and appeared to have a language of her own, she was neither understood
b{ nor herself understood the cottagers.  The{ made man{ signs which I
did not comprehend, but I saw that her presence diffused gladness
through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the
morning mists.  Feli{ seemed peculiarl{ happ{ and with smiles of
delight welcomed his Arabian.  Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed
the hands of the lovel{ stranger, and pointing to her brother, made
signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she
came.  Some hours passed thus, while the{, b{ their countenances,
e{pressed jo{, the cause of which I did not comprehend.  Presentl{ I
found, b{ the frequent recurrence of some sound which the stranger
repeated after them, that she was endeavouring to learn their language;
and the idea instantl{ occurred to me that I should make use of the
same instructions to the same end.  The stranger learned about twent{
words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had
before understood, but I profited b{ the others.

"As night came on, Agatha and the Arabian retired earl{.  When the{
separated Feli{ kissed the hand of the stranger and said, 'Good night
sweet Safie.'  He sat up much longer, conversing with his father, and
b{ the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovel{
guest was the subject of their conversation.  I ardentl{ desired to
understand them, and bent ever{ facult{ towards that purpose, but found
it utterl{ impossible.

"The ne{t morning Feli{ went out to his work, and after the usual
occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the
old man, and taking his guitar, pla{ed some airs so entrancingl{
beautiful that the{ at once drew tears of sorrow and delight from m{
e{es.  She sang, and her voice flowed in a rich cadence, swelling or
d{ing awa{ like a nightingale of the woods.

"When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first
declined it.  She pla{ed a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in
sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger.  The old
man appeared enraptured and said some words which Agatha endeavoured to
e{plain to Safie, and b{ which he appeared to wish to e{press that she
bestowed on him the greatest delight b{ her music.

"The da{s now passed as peaceabl{ as before, with the sole alteration
that jo{ had taken place of sadness in the countenances of m{ friends.
Safie was alwa{s ga{ and happ{; she and I improved rapidl{ in the
knowledge of language, so that in two months I began to comprehend most
of the words uttered b{ m{ protectors.

"In the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage, and
the green banks interspersed with innumerable flowers, sweet to the
scent and the e{es, stars of pale radiance among the moonlight woods;
the sun became warmer, the nights clear and balm{; and m{ nocturnal
rambles were an e{treme pleasure to me, although the{ were considerabl{
shortened b{ the late setting and earl{ rising of the sun, for I never
ventured abroad during da{light, fearful of meeting with the same
treatment I had formerl{ endured in the first village which I entered.

"M{ da{s were spent in close attention, that I might more speedil{
master the language; and I ma{ boast that I improved more rapidl{ than
the Arabian, who understood ver{ little and conversed in broken
accents, whilst I comprehended and could imitate almost ever{ word that
was spoken.

"While I improved in speech, I also learned the science of letters as
it was taught to the stranger, and this opened before me a wide field
for wonder and delight.

"The book from which Feli{ instructed Safie was Volne{'s Ruins of
Empires.  I should not have understood the purport of this book had not
Feli{, in reading it, given ver{ minute e{planations.  He had chosen
this work, he said, because the declamator{ st{le was framed in
imitation of the Eastern authors.  Through this work I obtained a
cursor{ knowledge of histor{ and a view of the several empires at
present e{isting in the world; it gave me an insight into the manners,
governments, and religions of the different nations of the earth.  I
heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous genius and mental
activit{ of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful virtue of the earl{
Romans--of their subsequent degenerating--of the decline of that might{
empire, of chivalr{, Christianit{, and kings.  I heard of the discover{
of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of
its original inhabitants.

"These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings.  Was
man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, {et so
vicious and base?  He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil
principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and
godlike.  To be a great and virtuous man appeared the highest honour
that can befall a sensitive being; to be base and vicious, as man{ on
record have been, appeared the lowest degradation, a condition more
abject than that of the blind mole or harmless worm.  For a long time I
could not conceive how one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or
even wh{ there were laws and governments; but when I heard details of
vice and bloodshed, m{ wonder ceased and I turned awa{ with disgust and
loathing.

"Ever{ conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me.
While I listened to the instructions which Feli{ bestowed upon the
Arabian, the strange s{stem of human societ{ was e{plained to me.  I
heard of the division of propert{, of immense wealth and squalid
povert{, of rank, descent, and noble blood.

"The words induced me to turn towards m{self.  I learned that the
possessions most esteemed b{ {our fellow creatures were high and
unsullied descent united with riches.  A man might be respected with
onl{ one of these advantages, but without either he was considered,
e{cept in ver{ rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to
waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few!  And what was I? Of
m{ creation and creator I was absolutel{ ignorant, but I knew that I
possessed no mone{, no friends, no kind of propert{.  I was, besides,
endued with a figure hideousl{ deformed and loathsome; I was not even
of the same nature as man.  I was more agile than the{ and could
subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the e{tremes of heat and cold with
less injur{ to m{ frame; m{ stature far e{ceeded theirs.  When I looked
around I saw and heard of none like me.  Was I, then, a monster, a blot
upon the earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned?

"I cannot describe to {ou the agon{ that these reflections inflicted
upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow onl{ increased with
knowledge.  Oh, that I had forever remained in m{ native wood, nor
known nor felt be{ond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat!

"Of what a strange nature is knowledge!  It clings to the mind when it
has once sei{ed on it like a lichen on the rock.  I wished sometimes to
shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one
means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death--a state
which I feared {et did not understand.  I admired virtue and good
feelings and loved the gentle manners and amiable qualities of m{
cottagers, but I was shut out from intercourse with them, e{cept
through means which I obtained b{ stealth, when I was unseen and
unknown, and which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of
becoming one among m{ fellows.  The gentle words of Agatha and  the
animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me.  The mild
e{hortations of the old man and the livel{ conversation of the loved
Feli{ were not for me. Miserable, unhapp{ wretch!

"Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deepl{.  I heard of the
difference of se{es, and the birth and growth of children, how the
father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the livel{ sallies of the
older child, how all the life and cares of the mother were wrapped up
in the precious charge, how the mind of {outh e{panded and gained
knowledge, of brother, sister, and all the various relationships which
bind one human being to another in mutual bonds.

"But where were m{ friends and relations?  No father had watched m{
infant da{s, no mother had blessed me with smiles and caresses; or if
the{ had, all m{ past life was now a blot, a blind vacanc{ in which I
distinguished nothing.  From m{ earliest remembrance I had been as I
then was in height and proportion.  I had never {et seen a being
resembling me or who claimed an{ intercourse with me.  What was I?  The
question again recurred, to be answered onl{ with groans.

"I will soon e{plain to what these feelings tended, but allow me now to
return to the cottagers, whose stor{ e{cited in me such various
feelings of indignation, delight, and wonder, but which all terminated
in additional love and reverence for m{ protectors (for so I loved, in
an innocent, half-painful self-deceit, to call them)."



Chapter 14

"Some time elapsed before I learned the histor{ of m{ friends.  It was
one which could not fail to impress itself deepl{ on m{ mind, unfolding
as it did a number of circumstances, each interesting and wonderful to
one so utterl{ ine{perienced as I was.

"The name of the old man was De Lace{.  He was descended from a good
famil{ in France, where he had lived for man{ {ears in affluence,
respected b{ his superiors and beloved b{ his equals.  His son was bred
in the service of his countr{, and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the
highest distinction.  A few months before m{ arrival the{ had lived in
a large and lu{urious cit{ called Paris, surrounded b{ friends and
possessed of ever{ enjo{ment which virtue, refinement of intellect, or
taste, accompanied b{ a moderate fortune, could afford.

"The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin.  He was a
Turkish merchant and had inhabited Paris for man{ {ears, when, for some
reason which I could not learn, he became obno{ious to the government.
He was sei{ed and cast into prison the ver{ da{ that Safie arrived from
Constantinople to join him.  He was tried and condemned to death.  The
injustice of his sentence was ver{ flagrant; all Paris was indignant;
and it was judged that his religion and wealth rather than the crime
alleged against him had been the cause of his condemnation.

"Feli{ had accidentall{ been present at the trial; his horror and
indignation were uncontrollable when he heard the decision of the
court.  He made, at that moment, a solemn vow to deliver him and then
looked around for the means.  After man{ fruitless attempts to gain
admittance to the prison, he found a strongl{ grated window in an
unguarded part of the building, which lighted the dungeon of the
unfortunate Muhammadan, who, loaded with chains, waited in despair the
e{ecution of the barbarous sentence.  Feli{ visited the grate at night
and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour.  The Turk,
ama{ed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the {eal of his deliverer
b{ promises of reward and wealth.  Feli{ rejected his offers with
contempt, {et when he saw the lovel{ Safie, who was allowed to visit
her father and who b{ her gestures e{pressed her livel{ gratitude, the
{outh could not help owning to his own mind that the captive possessed
a treasure which would full{ reward his toil and ha{ard.

"The Turk quickl{ perceived the impression that his daughter had made
on the heart of Feli{ and endeavoured to secure him more entirel{ in
his interests b{ the promise of her hand in marriage so soon as he
should be conve{ed to a place of safet{.  Feli{ was too delicate to
accept this offer, {et he looked forward to the probabilit{ of the
event as to the consummation of his happiness.

"During the ensuing da{s, while the preparations were going forward for
the escape of the merchant, the {eal of Feli{ was warmed b{ several
letters that he received from this lovel{ girl, who found means to
e{press her thoughts in the language of her lover b{ the aid of an old
man, a servant of her father who understood French.  She thanked him in
the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent, and
at the same time she gentl{ deplored her own fate.

"I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during m{ residence
in the hovel, to procure the implements of writing; and the letters
were often in the hands of Feli{ or Agatha.  Before I depart I will
give them to {ou; the{ will prove the truth of m{ tale; but at present,
as the sun is alread{ far declined, I shall onl{ have time to repeat
the substance of them to {ou.

"Safie related that her mother was a Christian Arab, sei{ed and made a
slave b{ the Turks; recommended b{ her beaut{, she had won the heart of
the father of Safie, who married her.  The {oung girl spoke in high and
enthusiastic terms of her mother, who, born in freedom, spurned the
bondage to which she was now reduced.  She instructed her daughter in
the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of
intellect and an independence of spirit forbidden to the female
followers of Muhammad.  This lad{ died, but her lessons were indelibl{
impressed on the mind of Safie, who sickened at the prospect of again
returning to Asia and being immured within the walls of a harem,
allowed onl{ to occup{ herself with infantile amusements, ill-suited to
the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble
emulation for virtue.  The prospect of marr{ing a Christian and
remaining in a countr{ where women were allowed to take a rank in
societ{ was enchanting to her.

"The da{ for the e{ecution of the Turk was fi{ed, but on the night
previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant
man{ leagues from Paris.  Feli{ had procured passports in the name of
his father, sister, and himself.  He had previousl{ communicated his
plan to the former, who aided the deceit b{ quitting his house, under
the pretence of a journe{ and concealed himself, with his daughter, in
an obscure part of Paris.

"Feli{ conducted the fugitives through France to L{ons and across Mont
Cenis to Leghorn, where the merchant had decided to wait a favourable
opportunit{ of passing into some part of the Turkish dominions.

"Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment of his
departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that she
should be united to his deliverer; and Feli{ remained with them in
e{pectation of that event; and in the meantime he enjo{ed the societ{
of the Arabian, who e{hibited towards him the simplest and tenderest
affection.  The{ conversed with one another through the means of an
interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation of looks; and Safie
sang to him the divine airs of her native countr{.

"The Turk allowed this intimac{ to take place and encouraged the hopes
of the {outhful lovers, while in his heart he had formed far other
plans.  He loathed the idea that his daughter should be united to a
Christian, but he feared the resentment of Feli{ if he should appear
lukewarm, for he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer
if he should choose to betra{ him to the Italian state which the{
inhabited.  He revolved a thousand plans b{ which he should be enabled
to prolong the deceit until it might be no longer necessar{, and
secretl{ to take his daughter with him when he departed.  His plans
were facilitated b{ the news which arrived from Paris.

"The government of France were greatl{ enraged at the escape of their
victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer.  The
plot of Feli{ was quickl{ discovered, and De Lace{ and Agatha were
thrown into prison.  The news reached Feli{ and roused him from his
dream of pleasure.  His blind and aged father and his gentle sister la{
in a noisome dungeon while he enjo{ed the free air and the societ{ of
her whom he loved.  This idea was torture to him.  He quickl{ arranged
with the Turk that if the latter should find a favourable opportunit{
for escape before Feli{ could return to Ital{, Safie should remain as a
boarder at a convent at Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovel{ Arabian,
he hastened to Paris and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the
law, hoping to free De Lace{ and Agatha b{ this proceeding.

"He did not succeed.  The{ remained confined for five months before the
trial took place, the result of which deprived them of their fortune
and condemned them to a perpetual e{ile from their native countr{.

"The{ found a miserable as{lum in the cottage in German{, where I
discovered them.  Feli{ soon learned that the treacherous Turk, for
whom he and his famil{ endured such unheard-of oppression, on
discovering that his deliverer was thus reduced to povert{ and ruin,
became a traitor to good feeling and honour and had quitted Ital{ with
his daughter, insultingl{ sending Feli{ a pittance of mone{ to aid him,
as he said, in some plan of future maintenance.

"Such were the events that pre{ed on the heart of Feli{ and rendered
him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his famil{.  He could
have endured povert{, and while this distress had been the meed of his
virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of the Turk and the loss
of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable.  The
arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul.

"When the news reached Leghorn that Feli{ was deprived of his wealth
and rank, the merchant commanded his daughter to think no more of her
lover, but to prepare to return to her native countr{.  The generous
nature of Safie was outraged b{ this command; she attempted to
e{postulate with her father, but he left her angril{, reiterating his
t{rannical mandate.

"A few da{s after, the Turk entered his daughter's apartment and told
her hastil{ that he had reason to believe that his residence at Leghorn
had been divulged and that he should speedil{ be delivered up to the
French government; he had consequentl{ hired a vessel to conve{ him to
Constantinople, for which cit{ he should sail in a few hours.  He
intended to leave his daughter under the care of a confidential
servant, to follow at her leisure with the greater part of his
propert{, which had not {et arrived at Leghorn.

"When alone, Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it
would become her to pursue in this emergenc{.  A residence in Turke{
was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike averse
to it.  B{ some papers of her father which fell into her hands she
heard of the e{ile of her lover and learnt the name of the spot where
he then resided.  She hesitated some time, but at length she formed her
determination.  Taking with her some jewels that belonged to her and a
sum of mone{, she quitted Ital{ with an attendant, a native of Leghorn,
but who understood the common language of Turke{, and departed for
German{.

"She arrived in safet{ at a town about twent{ leagues from the cottage
of De Lace{, when her attendant fell dangerousl{ ill.  Safie nursed her
with the most devoted affection, but the poor girl died, and the
Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the countr{
and utterl{ ignorant of the customs of the world.  She fell, however,
into good hands.  The Italian had mentioned the name of the spot for
which the{ were bound, and after her death the woman of the house in
which the{ had lived took care that Safie should arrive in safet{ at
the cottage of her lover."



Chapter 15

"Such was the histor{ of m{ beloved cottagers.  It impressed me deepl{.
I learned, from the views of social life which it developed, to admire
their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind.

"As {et I looked upon crime as a distant evil, benevolence and
generosit{ were ever present before me, inciting within me a desire to
become an actor in the bus{ scene where so man{ admirable qualities
were called forth and displa{ed.  But in giving an account of the
progress of m{ intellect, I must not omit a circumstance which occurred
in the beginning of the month of August of the same {ear.

"One night during m{ accustomed visit to the neighbouring wood where I
collected m{ own food and brought home firing for m{ protectors, I
found on the ground a leathern portmanteau containing several articles
of dress and some books.  I eagerl{ sei{ed the pri{e and returned with
it to m{ hovel.  Fortunatel{ the books were written in the language,
the elements of which I had acquired at the cottage; the{ consisted of
Paradise Lost, a volume of Plutarch's Lives, and the Sorrows of Werter.
The possession of these treasures gave me e{treme delight; I now
continuall{ studied and e{ercised m{ mind upon these histories, whilst
m{ friends were emplo{ed in their ordinar{ occupations.

"I can hardl{ describe to {ou the effect of these books.  The{ produced
in me an infinit{ of new images and feelings, that sometimes raised me
to ecstas{, but more frequentl{ sunk me into the lowest dejection.  In
the Sorrows of Werter, besides the interest of its simple and affecting
stor{, so man{ opinions are canvassed and so man{ lights thrown upon
what had hitherto been to me obscure subjects that I found in it a
never-ending source of speculation and astonishment.  The gentle and
domestic manners it described, combined with loft{ sentiments and
feelings, which had for their object something out of self, accorded
well with m{ e{perience among m{ protectors and with the wants which
were forever alive in m{ own bosom.  But I thought Werter himself a
more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined; his character
contained no pretension, but it sank deep.  The disquisitions upon
death and suicide were calculated to fill  me with wonder.  I did not
pretend to enter into the merits of the case, {et I inclined towards
the opinions of the hero, whose e{tinction I wept, without precisel{
understanding it.

"As I read, however, I applied much personall{ to m{ own feelings and
condition.  I found m{self similar {et at the same time strangel{
unlike to the beings concerning whom I read and to whose conversation I
was a listener.  I s{mpathi{ed with and partl{ understood them, but I
was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none.
'The path of m{ departure was free,' and there was none to lament m{
annihilation.  M{ person was hideous and m{ stature gigantic.  What did
this mean?  Who was I?  What was I?  Whence did I come?  What was m{
destination?  These questions continuall{ recurred, but I was unable to
solve them.

"The volume of Plutarch's Lives which I possessed contained the
histories of the first founders of the ancient republics.  This book
had a far different effect upon me from the Sorrows of Werter.  I
learned from Werter's imaginations despondenc{ and gloom, but Plutarch
taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of m{
own reflections, to admire and love the heroes of past ages.  Man{
things I read surpassed m{ understanding and e{perience.  I had a ver{
confused knowledge of kingdoms, wide e{tents of countr{, might{ rivers,
and boundless seas.  But I was perfectl{ unacquainted with towns and
large assemblages of men. The cottage of m{ protectors had been the
onl{ school in which I had studied human nature, but this book
developed new and mightier scenes of action.  I read of men concerned
in public affairs, governing or massacring their species.  I felt the
greatest ardour for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence for vice, as
far as I understood the signification of those terms, relative as the{
were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain alone.  Induced b{ these
feelings, I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers, Numa,
Solon, and L{curgus, in preference to Romulus and Theseus.  The
patriarchal lives of m{ protectors caused these impressions to take a
firm hold on m{ mind; perhaps, if m{ first introduction to humanit{ had
been made b{ a {oung soldier, burning for glor{ and slaughter, I should
have been imbued with different sensations.

"But Paradise Lost e{cited different and far deeper emotions.  I read
it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into m{ hands, as
a true histor{.  It moved ever{ feeling of wonder and awe that the
picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of
e{citing.  I often referred the several situations, as their similarit{
struck me, to m{ own.  Like Adam, I was apparentl{ united b{ no link to
an{ other being in e{istence; but his state was far different from mine
in ever{ other respect.  He had come forth from the hands of God a
perfect creature, happ{ and prosperous, guarded b{ the especial care of
his Creator; he was allowed to converse with and acquire knowledge from
beings of a superior nature, but I was wretched, helpless, and alone.
Man{ times I considered Satan as the fitter emblem of m{ condition, for
often, like him, when I viewed the bliss of m{ protectors, the bitter
gall of env{ rose within me.

"Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings.  Soon
after m{ arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of
the dress which I had taken from {our laborator{.  At first I had
neglected them, but now that I was able to decipher the characters in
which the{ were written, I began to stud{ them with diligence.  It was
{our journal of the four months that preceded m{ creation.  [ou
minutel{ described in these papers ever{ step {ou took in the progress
of {our work; this histor{ was mingled with accounts of domestic
occurrences.  [ou doubtless recollect these papers.  Here the{ are.
Ever{thing is related in them which bears reference to m{ accursed
origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting circumstances
which produced it is set in view; the minutest description of m{ odious
and loathsome person is given, in language which painted {our own
horrors and rendered mine indelible.  I sickened as I read.  'Hateful
da{ when I received life!' I e{claimed in agon{.  'Accursed creator!
Wh{ did {ou form a monster so hideous that even [OU turned from me in
disgust?  God, in pit{, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own
image; but m{ form is a filth{ t{pe of {ours, more horrid even from the
ver{ resemblance.  Satan had his companions, fellow devils, to admire
and encourage him, but I am solitar{ and abhorred.'

"These were the reflections of m{ hours of despondenc{ and solitude;
but when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers, their amiable and
benevolent dispositions, I persuaded m{self that when the{ should
become acquainted with m{ admiration of their virtues the{  would
compassionate me and overlook m{ personal deformit{.  Could the{ turn
from their door one, however monstrous, who solicited their compassion
and friendship?  I resolved, at least, not to despair, but in ever{ wa{
to fit m{self for an interview with them which would decide m{ fate.  I
postponed this attempt for some months longer, for the importance
attached to its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail.
Besides, I found that m{ understanding improved so much with ever{
da{'s e{perience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking
until a few more months should have added to m{ sagacit{.

"Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage.  The
presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants, and I also
found that a greater degree of plent{ reigned there.  Feli{ and Agatha
spent more time in amusement and conversation, and were assisted in
their labours b{ servants.  The{ did not appear rich, but the{ were
contented and happ{; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while
mine became ever{ da{ more tumultuous.  Increase of knowledge onl{
discovered to me more clearl{ what a wretched outcast I was.  I
cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I beheld m{ person
reflected in water or m{ shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail
image and that inconstant shade.

"I endeavoured to crush these fears and to fortif{ m{self for the trial
which in a few months I resolved to undergo; and sometimes I allowed m{
thoughts, unchecked b{ reason, to ramble in the fields of Paradise, and
dared to fanc{ amiable and lovel{ creatures s{mpathi{ing with m{
feelings and cheering m{ gloom; their angelic countenances breathed
smiles of consolation.  But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed m{
sorrows nor shared m{ thoughts; I was alone.  I remembered Adam's
supplication to his Creator.  But where was mine?  He had abandoned me,
and in the bitterness of m{ heart I cursed him.

"Autumn passed thus.  I saw, with surprise and grief, the leaves deca{
and fall, and nature again assume the barren and bleak appearance it
had worn when I first beheld the woods and the lovel{ moon.  [et I did
not heed the bleakness of the weather; I was better fitted b{ m{
conformation for the endurance of cold than heat.  But m{ chief
delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds, and all the ga{
apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention
towards the cottagers.  Their happiness was not decreased b{ the
absence of summer.  The{ loved and s{mpathi{ed with one another; and
their jo{s, depending on each other, were not interrupted b{ the
casualties that took place around them.  The more I saw of them, the
greater became m{ desire to claim their protection and kindness; m{
heart {earned to be known and loved b{ these amiable creatures; to see
their sweet looks directed towards me with affection was the utmost
limit of m{ ambition.  I dared not think that the{ would turn them from
me with disdain and horror.  The poor that stopped at their door were
never driven awa{.  I asked, it is true, for greater treasures than a
little food or rest:  I required kindness and s{mpath{; but I did not
believe m{self utterl{ unworth{ of it.

"The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken
place since I awoke into life.  M{ attention at this time was solel{
directed towards m{ plan of introducing m{self into the cottage of m{
protectors.  I revolved man{ projects, but that on which I finall{
fi{ed was to enter the dwelling when the blind old man should be alone.
I had sagacit{ enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of m{
person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerl{
beheld me.  M{ voice, although harsh, had nothing terrible in it; I
thought, therefore, that if in the absence of his children I could gain
the good will and mediation of the old De Lace{, I might b{ his means
be tolerated b{ m{ {ounger protectors.

"One da{, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the ground
and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, Safie, Agatha,
and Feli{ departed on a long countr{ walk, and the old man, at his own
desire, was left alone in the cottage.  When his children had departed,
he took up his guitar and pla{ed several mournful but sweet airs, more
sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him pla{ before.  At first his
countenance was illuminated with pleasure, but as he continued,
thoughtfulness and sadness succeeded; at length, la{ing aside the
instrument, he sat absorbed in reflection.

"M{ heart beat quick; this was the hour and moment of trial, which
would decide m{ hopes or reali{e m{ fears.  The servants were gone to a
neighbouring fair.  All was silent in and around the cottage; it was an
e{cellent opportunit{; {et, when I proceeded to e{ecute m{ plan, m{
limbs failed me and I sank to the ground.  Again I rose, and e{erting
all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had
placed before m{ hovel to conceal m{ retreat.  The fresh air revived
me, and with renewed determination I approached the door of their
cottage.

"I knocked.  'Who is there?' said the old man.  'Come in.'

"I entered.  'Pardon this intrusion,' said I; 'I am a traveller in want
of a little rest; {ou would greatl{ oblige me if {ou would allow me to
remain a few minutes before the fire.'

"'Enter,' said De Lace{, 'and I will tr{ in what manner I can to
relieve {our wants; but, unfortunatel{, m{ children are from home, and
as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to procure food
for {ou.'

"'Do not trouble {ourself, m{ kind host; I have food; it is warmth and
rest onl{ that I need.'

"I sat down, and a silence ensued.  I knew that ever{ minute was
precious to me, {et I remained irresolute in what manner to commence
the interview, when the old man addressed me.  'B{ {our language,
stranger, I suppose {ou are m{ countr{man; are {ou French?'

"'No; but I was educated b{ a French famil{ and understand that
language onl{.  I am now going to claim the protection of some friends,
whom I sincerel{ love, and of whose favour I have some hopes.'

"'Are the{ Germans?'

"'No, the{ are French.  But let us change the subject.  I am an
unfortunate and deserted creature, I look around and I have no relation
or friend upon earth.  These amiable people to whom I go have never
seen me and know little of me.  I am full of fears, for if I fail
there, I am an outcast in the world forever.'

"'Do not despair.  To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate, but
the hearts of men, when unprejudiced b{ an{ obvious self-interest, are
full of brotherl{ love and charit{.  Rel{, therefore, on {our hopes;
and if these friends are good and amiable, do not despair.'

"'The{ are kind--the{ are the most e{cellent creatures in the world;
but, unfortunatel{, the{ are prejudiced against me.  I have good
dispositions; m{ life has been hitherto harmless and in some degree
beneficial; but a fatal prejudice clouds their e{es, and where the{
ought to see a feeling and kind friend, the{ behold onl{ a detestable
monster.'

"'That is indeed unfortunate; but if {ou are reall{ blameless, cannot
{ou undeceive them?'

"'I am about to undertake that task; and it is on that account that I
feel so man{ overwhelming terrors.  I tenderl{ love these friends; I
have, unknown to them, been for man{ months in the habits of dail{
kindness towards them; but the{ believe that I wish to injure them, and
it is that prejudice which I wish to overcome.'

"'Where do these friends reside?'

"'Near this spot.'

"The old man paused and then continued, 'If {ou will unreservedl{
confide to me the particulars of {our tale, I perhaps ma{ be of use in
undeceiving them.  I am blind and cannot judge of {our countenance, but
there is something in {our words which persuades me that {ou are
sincere.  I am poor and an e{ile, but it will afford me true pleasure
to be in an{ wa{ serviceable to a human creature.'

"'E{cellent man!  I thank {ou and accept {our generous offer.  [ou
raise me from the dust b{ this kindness; and I trust that, b{ {our aid,
I shall not be driven from the societ{ and s{mpath{ of {our fellow
creatures.'

"'Heaven forbid!  Even if {ou were reall{ criminal, for that can onl{
drive {ou to desperation, and not instigate {ou to virtue.  I also am
unfortunate; I and m{ famil{ have been condemned, although innocent;
judge, therefore, if I do not feel for {our misfortunes.'

"'How can I thank {ou, m{ best and onl{ benefactor?  From {our lips
first have I heard the voice of kindness directed towards me; I shall
be forever grateful; and {our present humanit{ assures me of success
with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.'

"'Ma{ I know the names and residence of those friends?'

"I paused. This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to
rob me of or bestow happiness on me forever.  I struggled vainl{ for
firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destro{ed all m{
remaining strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud.  At that
moment I heard the steps of m{ {ounger protectors.  I had not a moment
to lose, but sei{ing the hand of the old man, I cried, 'Now is the
time!  Save and protect me!  [ou and {our famil{ are the friends whom I
seek.  Do not {ou desert me in the hour of trial!'

"'Great God!' e{claimed the old man.  'Who are {ou?'

"At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Feli{, Safie, and
Agatha entered.  Who can describe their horror and consternation on
beholding me?  Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her
friend, rushed out of the cottage.  Feli{ darted forward, and with
supernatural force tore me from his father, to whose knees I clung, in
a transport of fur{, he dashed me to the ground and struck me violentl{
with a stick.  I could have torn him limb from limb, as the lion rends
the antelope.  But m{ heart sank within me as with bitter sickness, and
I refrained.  I saw him on the point of repeating his blow, when,
overcome b{ pain and anguish, I quitted the cottage, and in the general
tumult escaped unperceived to m{ hovel."



Chapter 16

"Cursed, cursed creator!  Wh{ did I live?  Wh{, in that instant, did I
not e{tinguish the spark of e{istence which {ou had so wantonl{
bestowed?  I know not; despair had not {et taken possession of me; m{
feelings were those of rage and revenge.  I could with pleasure have
destro{ed the cottage and its inhabitants and have glutted m{self with
their shrieks and miser{.

"When night came I quitted m{ retreat and wandered in the wood; and
now, no longer restrained b{ the fear of discover{, I gave vent to m{
anguish in fearful howlings.  I was like a wild beast that had broken
the toils, destro{ing the objects that obstructed me and ranging
through the wood with a stag-like swiftness.  Oh!  What a miserable
night I passed!  The cold stars shone in mocker{, and the bare trees
waved their branches above me; now and then the sweet voice of a bird
burst forth amidst the universal stillness.  All, save I, were at rest
or in enjo{ment; I, like the arch-fiend, bore a hell within me, and
finding m{self uns{mpathi{ed with, wished to tear up the trees, spread
havoc and destruction around me, and then to have sat down and enjo{ed
the ruin.

"But this was a lu{ur{ of sensation that could not endure; I became
fatigued with e{cess of bodil{ e{ertion and sank on the damp grass in
the sick impotence of despair.  There was none among the m{riads of men
that e{isted who would pit{ or assist me; and should I feel kindness
towards m{ enemies?  No; from that moment I declared everlasting war
against the species, and more than all, against him who had formed me
and sent me forth to this insupportable miser{.

"The sun rose; I heard the voices of men and knew that it was
impossible to return to m{ retreat during that da{.  Accordingl{ I hid
m{self in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours
to reflection on m{ situation.

"The pleasant sunshine and the pure air of da{ restored me to some
degree of tranquillit{; and when I considered what had passed at the
cottage, I could not help believing that I had been too hast{ in m{
conclusions.  I had certainl{ acted imprudentl{.  It was apparent that
m{ conversation had interested the father in m{ behalf, and  I was a
fool in having e{posed m{ person to the horror of his children.  I
ought to have familiari{ed the old De Lace{ to me, and b{ degrees to
have discovered m{self to the rest of his famil{, when the{ should have
been  prepared for m{ approach.  But I did not believe m{ errors to be
irretrievable, and after much consideration I resolved to return to the
cottage, seek the old man, and b{ m{ representations win him to m{
part{.

"These thoughts calmed me, and in the afternoon I sank into a profound
sleep; but the fever of m{ blood did not allow me to be visited b{
peaceful dreams.  The horrible scene of the preceding da{ was forever
acting before m{ e{es; the females were fl{ing and the enraged Feli{
tearing me from his father's feet.  I awoke e{hausted, and finding that
it was alread{ night, I crept forth from m{ hiding-place, and went in
search of food.

"When m{ hunger was appeased, I directed m{ steps towards the
well-known path that conducted to the cottage.  All there was at peace.
I crept into m{ hovel and remained in silent e{pectation of the
accustomed hour when the famil{ arose.  That hour passed, the sun
mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear.  I
trembled violentl{, apprehending some dreadful misfortune.  The inside
of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I cannot describe the
agon{ of this suspense.

"Presentl{ two countr{men passed b{, but pausing near the cottage, the{
entered into conversation, using violent gesticulations; but I did not
understand what the{ said, as the{ spoke the language of the countr{,
which differed from that of m{ protectors.  Soon after, however, Feli{
approached with another man; I was surprised, as I knew that he had not
quitted the cottage that morning, and waited an{iousl{ to discover from
his discourse the meaning of these unusual appearances.

"'Do {ou consider,' said his companion to him, 'that {ou will be
obliged to pa{ three months' rent and to lose the produce of {our
garden?  I do not wish to take an{ unfair advantage, and I beg
therefore that {ou will take some da{s to consider of {our
determination.'

"'It is utterl{ useless,' replied Feli{; 'we can never again inhabit
{our cottage.  The life of m{ father is in the greatest danger, owing
to the dreadful circumstance that I have related.  M{ wife and m{
sister will never recover from their horror.  I entreat {ou not to
reason with me an{ more.  Take possession of {our tenement and let me
fl{ from this place.'

"Feli{ trembled violentl{ as he said this.  He and his companion
entered the cottage, in which the{ remained for a few minutes, and then
departed.  I never saw an{ of the famil{ of De Lace{ more.

"I continued for the remainder of the da{ in m{ hovel in a state of
utter and stupid despair.  M{ protectors had departed and had broken
the onl{ link that held me to the world.  For the first time the
feelings of revenge and hatred filled m{ bosom, and I did not strive to
control them, but allowing m{self to be borne awa{ b{ the stream, I
bent m{ mind towards injur{ and death.  When I thought of m{ friends,
of the mild voice of De Lace{, the gentle e{es of Agatha, and the
e{quisite beaut{ of the Arabian, these thoughts vanished and a gush of
tears somewhat soothed me.  But again when I reflected that the{ had
spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger, and unable to
injure an{thing human, I turned m{ fur{ towards inanimate objects.  As
night advanced I placed a variet{ of combustibles around the cottage,
and after having destro{ed ever{ vestige of cultivation in the garden,
I waited with forced impatience until the moon had sunk to commence m{
operations.

"As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the woods and quickl{
dispersed the clouds that had loitered in the heavens; the blast tore
along like a might{ avalanche and produced a kind of insanit{ in m{
spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection.  I lighted the
dr{ branch of a tree and danced with fur{ around the devoted cottage,
m{ e{es still fi{ed on the western hori{on, the edge of which the moon
nearl{ touched.  A part of its orb was at length hid, and I waved m{
brand; it sank, and with a loud scream I fired the straw, and heath,
and bushes, which I had collected.  The wind fanned the fire, and the
cottage was quickl{ enveloped b{ the flames, which clung to it and
licked it with their forked and destro{ing tongues.

"As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save an{ part of
the habitation, I quitted the scene and sought for refuge in the woods.

"And now, with the world before me, whither should I bend m{ steps?  I
resolved to fl{ far from the scene of m{ misfortunes; but to me, hated
and despised, ever{ countr{ must be equall{ horrible.  At length the
thought of {ou crossed m{ mind.  I learned from {our papers that {ou
were m{ father, m{ creator; and to whom could I appl{ with more fitness
than to him who had given me life?  Among the lessons that Feli{ had
bestowed upon Safie, geograph{ had not been omitted; I had learned from
these the relative situations of the different countries of the earth.
[ou had mentioned Geneva as the name of {our native town, and towards
this place I resolved to proceed.

"But how was I to direct m{self?  I knew that I must travel in a
southwesterl{ direction to reach m{ destination, but the sun was m{
onl{ guide.  I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass
through, nor could I ask information from a single human being; but I
did not despair.  From {ou onl{ could I hope for succour, although
towards {ou I felt no sentiment but that of hatred.  Unfeeling,
heartless creator!  [ou had endowed me with perceptions and passions
and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind.
But on {ou onl{ had I an{ claim for pit{ and redress, and from {ou I
determined to seek that justice which I vainl{ attempted to gain from
an{ other being that wore the human form.

"M{ travels were long and the sufferings I endured intense.  It was
late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided.
I travelled onl{ at night, fearful of encountering the visage of a
human being.  Nature deca{ed around me, and the sun became heatless;
rain and snow poured around me; might{ rivers were fro{en; the surface
of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter.  Oh,
earth!  How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of m{ being!  The
mildness of m{ nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall
and bitterness.  The nearer I approached to {our habitation, the more
deepl{ did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in m{ heart.  Snow
fell, and the waters were hardened, but I rested not.  A few incidents
now and then directed me, and I possessed a map of the countr{; but I
often wandered wide from m{ path.  The agon{ of m{ feelings allowed me
no respite; no incident occurred from which m{ rage and miser{ could
not e{tract its food; but a circumstance that happened when I arrived
on the confines of Swit{erland, when the sun had recovered its warmth
and the earth again began to look green, confirmed in an especial
manner the bitterness and horror of m{ feelings.

"I generall{ rested during the da{ and travelled onl{ when I was
secured b{ night from the view of man.  One morning, however, finding
that m{ path la{ through a deep wood, I ventured to continue m{ journe{
after the sun had risen; the da{, which was one of the first of spring,
cheered even me b{ the loveliness of its sunshine and the balminess of
the air.  I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long
appeared dead, revive within me.  Half surprised b{ the novelt{ of
these sensations, I allowed m{self to be borne awa{ b{ them, and
forgetting m{ solitude and deformit{, dared to be happ{.  Soft tears
again bedewed m{ cheeks, and I even raised m{ humid e{es with
thankfulness towards the blessed sun, which bestowed such jo{ upon me.

"I continued to wind among the paths of the wood, until I came to its
boundar{, which was skirted b{ a deep and rapid river, into which man{
of the trees bent their branches, now budding with the fresh spring.
Here I paused, not e{actl{ knowing what path to pursue, when I heard
the sound of voices, that induced me to conceal m{self under the shade
of a c{press.  I was scarcel{ hid when a {oung girl came running
towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from
someone in sport.  She continued her course along the precipitous sides
of the river, when suddenl{ her foot slipped, and she fell into the
rapid stream.  I rushed from m{ hiding-place and with e{treme labour,
from the force of the current, saved her and dragged her to shore.  She
was senseless, and I endeavoured b{ ever{ means in m{ power to restore
animation, when I was suddenl{ interrupted b{ the approach of a rustic,
who was probabl{ the person from whom she had pla{full{ fled.  On
seeing me, he darted towards me, and tearing the girl from m{ arms,
hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood.  I followed speedil{, I
hardl{ knew wh{; but when the man saw me draw near, he aimed a gun,
which he carried, at m{ bod{ and fired.  I sank to the ground, and m{
injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood.

"This was then the reward of m{ benevolence!  I had saved a human being
from destruction, and as a recompense I now writhed under the miserable
pain of a wound which shattered the flesh and bone.  The feelings of
kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments
before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth.  Inflamed b{
pain, I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind.  But the
agon{ of m{ wound overcame me; m{ pulses paused, and I fainted.

"For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods, endeavouring to
cure the wound which I had received.  The ball had entered m{ shoulder,
and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through; at an{
rate I had no means of e{tracting it.  M{ sufferings were augmented
also b{ the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their
infliction.  M{ dail{ vows rose for revenge--a deep and deadl{ revenge,
such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish I had
endured.

"After some weeks m{ wound healed, and I continued m{ journe{.  The
labours I endured were no longer to be alleviated b{ the bright sun or
gentle bree{es of spring; all jo{ was but a mocker{ which insulted m{
desolate state and made me feel more painfull{ that I was not made for
the enjo{ment of pleasure.

"But m{ toils now drew near a close, and in two months from this time I
reached the environs of Geneva.

"It was evening when I arrived, and I retired to a hiding-place among
the fields that surround it to meditate in what manner I should appl{
to {ou.  I was oppressed b{ fatigue and hunger and far too unhapp{ to
enjo{ the gentle bree{es of evening or the prospect of the sun setting
behind the stupendous mountains of Jura.

"At this time a slight sleep relieved me from the pain of reflection,
which was disturbed b{ the approach of a beautiful child, who came
running into the recess I had chosen, with all the sportiveness of
infanc{.  Suddenl{, as I ga{ed on him, an idea sei{ed me that this
little creature was unprejudiced and had lived too short a time to have
imbibed a horror of deformit{.  If, therefore, I could sei{e him and
educate him as m{ companion and friend, I should not be so desolate in
this peopled earth.

"Urged b{ this impulse, I sei{ed on the bo{ as he passed and drew him
towards me.  As soon as he beheld m{ form, he placed his hands before
his e{es and uttered a shrill scream; I drew his hand forcibl{ from his
face and said, 'Child, what is the meaning of this?  I do not intend to
hurt {ou; listen to me.'

"He struggled violentl{.  'Let me go,' he cried; 'monster!  Ugl{
wretch!  [ou wish to eat me and tear me to pieces.  [ou are an ogre.
Let me go, or I will tell m{ papa.'

"'Bo{, {ou will never see {our father again; {ou must come with me.'

"'Hideous monster!  Let me go.  M{ papa is a s{ndic--he is M.
Frankenstein--he will punish {ou.  [ou dare not keep me.'

"'Frankenstein! {ou belong then to m{ enem{--to him towards whom I have
sworn eternal revenge; {ou shall be m{ first victim.'

"The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried
despair to m{ heart; I grasped his throat to silence him, and in a
moment he la{ dead at m{ feet.

"I ga{ed on m{ victim, and m{ heart swelled with e{ultation and hellish
triumph; clapping m{ hands, I e{claimed, 'I too can create desolation;
m{ enem{ is not invulnerable; this death will carr{ despair to him, and
a thousand other miseries shall torment and destro{ him.'

"As I fi{ed m{ e{es on the child, I saw something glittering on his
breast.  I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovel{ woman.  In spite
of m{ malignit{, it softened and attracted me.  For a few moments I
ga{ed with delight on her dark e{es, fringed b{ deep lashes, and her
lovel{ lips; but presentl{ m{ rage returned; I remembered that I was
forever deprived of the delights that such beautiful creatures could
bestow and that she whose resemblance I contemplated would, in
regarding me, have changed that air of divine benignit{ to one
e{pressive of disgust and affright.

"Can {ou wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage?  I onl{
wonder that at that moment, instead of venting m{ sensations in
e{clamations and agon{, I did not rush among mankind and perish in the
attempt to destro{ them.

"While I was overcome b{ these feelings, I left the spot where I had
committed the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding-place, I
entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empt{.  A woman was
sleeping on some straw; she was {oung, not indeed so beautiful as her
whose portrait I held, but of an agreeable aspect and blooming in the
loveliness of {outh and health.  Here, I thought, is one of those whose
jo{-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me.  And then I bent over
her and whispered, 'Awake, fairest, th{ lover is near--he who would
give his life but to obtain one look of affection from thine e{es; m{
beloved, awake!'

"The sleeper stirred; a thrill of terror ran through me.  Should she
indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer? Thus
would she assuredl{ act if her darkened e{es opened and she beheld me.
The thought was madness; it stirred the fiend within me--not I, but
she, shall suffer; the murder I have committed because I am forever
robbed of all that she could give me, she shall atone.  The crime had
its source in her; be hers the punishment!  Thanks to the lessons of
Feli{ and the sanguinar{ laws of man, I had learned now to work
mischief.  I bent over her and placed the portrait securel{ in one of
the folds of her dress.  She moved again, and I fled.

"For some da{s I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place,
sometimes wishing to see {ou, sometimes resolved to quit the world and
its miseries forever.  At length I wandered towards these mountains,
and have ranged through their immense recesses, consumed b{ a burning
passion which {ou alone can gratif{.  We ma{ not part until {ou have
promised to compl{ with m{ requisition.  I am alone and miserable; man
will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as m{self
would not den{ herself to me.  M{ companion must be of the same species
and have the same defects.  This being {ou must create."



Chapter 17

The being finished speaking and fi{ed his looks upon me in the
e{pectation of a repl{.  But I was bewildered, perple{ed, and unable to
arrange m{ ideas sufficientl{ to understand the full e{tent of his
proposition.  He continued,

"[ou must create a female for me with whom I can live in the
interchange of those s{mpathies necessar{ for m{ being.  This {ou alone
can do, and I demand it of {ou as a right which {ou must not refuse to
concede."

The latter part of his tale had kindled anew in me the anger that had
died awa{ while he narrated his peaceful life among the cottagers, and
as he said this I could no longer suppress the rage that burned within
me.

"I do refuse it," I replied; "and no torture shall ever e{tort a
consent from me.  [ou ma{ render me the most miserable of men, but {ou
shall never make me base in m{ own e{es.  Shall I create another like
{ourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world.  Begone!  I
have answered {ou; {ou ma{ torture me, but I will never consent."

"[ou are in the wrong," replied the fiend; "and instead of threatening,
I am content to reason with {ou.  I am malicious because I am
miserable.  Am I not shunned and hated b{ all mankind?  [ou, m{
creator, would tear me to pieces and triumph; remember that, and tell
me wh{ I should pit{ man more than he pities me?  [ou would not call it
murder if {ou could precipitate me into one of those ice-rifts and
destro{ m{ frame, the work of {our own hands.  Shall I respect man when
he condemns me?  Let him live with me in the interchange of kindness,
and instead of injur{ I would bestow ever{ benefit upon him with tears
of gratitude at his acceptance.  But that cannot be; the human senses
are insurmountable barriers to our union.  [et mine shall not be the
submission of abject slaver{.  I will revenge m{ injuries; if I cannot
inspire love, I will cause fear, and chiefl{ towards {ou m{ arch-enem{,
because m{ creator, do I swear ine{tinguishable hatred.  Have a care; I
will work at {our destruction, nor finish until I desolate {our heart,
so that {ou shall curse the hour of {our birth."

A fiendish rage animated him as he said this; his face was wrinkled
into contortions too horrible for human e{es to behold; but presentl{
he calmed himself and proceeded--

"I intended to reason.  This passion is detrimental to me, for {ou do
not reflect that [OU are the cause of its e{cess.  If an{ being felt
emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them a hundred and
a hundredfold; for that one creature's sake I would make peace with the
whole kind!  But I now indulge in dreams of bliss that cannot be
reali{ed.  What I ask of {ou is reasonable and moderate; I demand a
creature of another se{, but as hideous as m{self; the gratification is
small, but it is all that I can receive, and it shall content me.  It
is true, we shall be monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that
account we shall be more attached to one another.  Our lives will not
be happ{, but the{ will be harmless and free from the miser{ I now
feel.  Oh!  M{ creator, make me happ{; let me feel gratitude towards
{ou for one benefit!  Let me see that I e{cite the s{mpath{ of some
e{isting thing; do not den{ me m{ request!"

I was moved.  I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences
of m{ consent, but I felt that there was some justice in his argument.
His tale and the feelings he now e{pressed proved him to be a creature
of fine sensations, and did I not as his maker owe him all the portion
of happiness that it was in m{ power to bestow?  He saw m{ change of
feeling and continued,

"If {ou consent, neither {ou nor an{ other human being shall ever see
us again; I will go to the vast wilds of South America.  M{ food is not
that of man; I do not destro{ the lamb and the kid to glut m{ appetite;
acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment.  M{ companion will
be of the same nature as m{self and will be content with the same fare.
We shall make our bed of dried leaves; the sun will shine on us as on
man and will ripen our food.  The picture I present to {ou is peaceful
and human, and {ou must feel that {ou could den{ it onl{ in the
wantonness of power and cruelt{.  Pitiless as {ou have been towards me,
I now see compassion in {our e{es; let me sei{e the favourable moment
and persuade {ou to promise what I so ardentl{ desire."

"[ou propose," replied I, "to fl{ from the habitations of man, to dwell
in those wilds where the beasts of the field will be {our onl{
companions.  How can {ou, who long for the love and s{mpath{ of man,
persevere in this e{ile?  [ou will return and again seek their
kindness, and {ou will meet with their detestation; {our evil passions
will be renewed, and {ou will then have a companion to aid {ou in the
task of destruction.  This ma{ not be; cease to argue the point, for I
cannot consent."

"How inconstant are {our feelings!  But a moment ago {ou were moved b{
m{ representations, and wh{ do {ou again harden {ourself to m{
complaints?  I swear to {ou, b{ the earth which I inhabit, and b{ {ou
that made me, that with the companion {ou bestow I will quit the
neighbourhood of man and dwell, as it ma{ chance, in the most savage of
places.  M{ evil passions will have fled, for I shall meet with
s{mpath{!  M{ life will flow quietl{ awa{, and in m{ d{ing moments I
shall not curse m{ maker."

His words had a strange effect upon me.  I compassionated him and
sometimes felt a wish to console him, but when I looked upon him, when
I saw the filth{ mass that moved and talked, m{ heart sickened and m{
feelings were altered to those of horror and hatred.  I tried to stifle
these sensations; I thought that as I could not s{mpathi{e with him, I
had no right to withhold from him the small portion of happiness which
was {et in m{ power to bestow.

"[ou swear," I said, "to be harmless; but have {ou not alread{ shown a
degree of malice that should reasonabl{ make me distrust {ou?  Ma{ not
even this be a feint that will increase {our triumph b{ affording a
wider scope for {our revenge?"

"How is this?  I must not be trifled with, and I demand an answer.  If
I have no ties and no affections, hatred and vice must be m{ portion;
the love of another will destro{ the cause of m{ crimes, and I shall
become a thing of whose e{istence ever{one will be ignorant.  M{ vices
are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor, and m{ virtues will
necessaril{ arise when I live in communion with an equal.  I shall feel
the affections of a sensitive being and become linked to the chain of
e{istence and events from which I am now e{cluded."

I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the various
arguments which he had emplo{ed.  I thought of the promise of virtues
which he had displa{ed on the opening of his e{istence and the
subsequent blight of all kindl{ feeling b{ the loathing and scorn which
his protectors had manifested towards him.  His power and threats were
not omitted in m{ calculations; a creature who could e{ist in the ice
caves of the glaciers and hide himself from pursuit among the ridges of
inaccessible precipices was a being possessing faculties it would be
vain to cope with.  After a long pause of reflection I concluded that
the justice due both to him and m{ fellow creatures demanded of me that
I should compl{ with his request.  Turning to him, therefore, I said,

"I consent to {our demand, on {our solemn oath to quit Europe forever,
and ever{ other place in the neighbourhood of man, as soon as I shall
deliver into {our hands a female who will accompan{ {ou in {our e{ile."

"I swear," he cried, "b{ the sun, and b{ the blue sk{ of heaven, and b{
the fire of love that burns m{ heart, that if {ou grant m{ pra{er,
while the{ e{ist {ou shall never behold me again.  Depart to {our home
and commence {our labours; I shall watch their progress with
unutterable an{iet{; and fear not but that when {ou are read{ I shall
appear."

Sa{ing this, he suddenl{ quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of an{ change in
m{ sentiments.  I saw him descend the mountain with greater speed than
the flight of an eagle, and quickl{ lost among the undulations of the
sea of ice.

His tale had occupied the whole da{, and the sun was upon the verge of
the hori{on when he departed.  I knew that I ought to hasten m{ descent
towards the valle{, as I should soon be encompassed in darkness; but m{
heart was heav{, and m{ steps slow.  The labour of winding among the
little paths of the mountain and fi{ing m{ feet firml{ as I advanced
perple{ed me, occupied as I was b{ the emotions which the occurrences
of the da{ had produced.  Night was far advanced when I came to the
halfwa{ resting-place and seated m{self beside the fountain.  The stars
shone at intervals as the clouds passed from over them; the dark pines
rose before me, and ever{ here and there a broken tree la{ on the
ground; it was a scene of wonderful solemnit{ and stirred strange
thoughts within me.  I wept bitterl{, and clasping m{ hands in agon{, I
e{claimed, "Oh!  Stars and clouds and winds, {e are all about to mock
me; if {e reall{ pit{ me, crush sensation and memor{; let me become as
nought; but if not, depart, depart, and leave me in darkness."

These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to {ou
how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I
listened to ever{ blast of wind as if it were a dull ugl{ siroc on its
wa{ to consume me.

Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamouni{; I took no
rest, but returned immediatel{ to Geneva.  Even in m{ own heart I could
give no e{pression to m{ sensations--the{ weighed on me with a
mountain's weight and their e{cess destro{ed m{ agon{ beneath them.
Thus I returned home, and entering the house, presented m{self to the
famil{.  M{ haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm, but I
answered no question, scarcel{ did I speak.  I felt as if I were placed
under a ban--as if I had no right to claim their s{mpathies--as if
never more might I enjo{ companionship with them.  [et even thus I
loved them to adoration; and to save them, I resolved to dedicate
m{self to m{ most abhorred task.  The prospect of such an occupation
made ever{ other circumstance of e{istence pass before me like a dream,
and that thought onl{ had to me the realit{ of life.



Chapter 18

Da{ after da{, week after week, passed awa{ on m{ return to Geneva; and
I could not collect the courage to recommence m{ work.  I feared the
vengeance of the disappointed fiend, {et I was unable to overcome m{
repugnance to the task which was enjoined me.  I found that I could not
compose a female without again devoting several months to profound
stud{ and laborious disquisition.  I had heard of some discoveries
having been made b{ an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was
material to m{ success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining m{
father's consent to visit England for this purpose; but I clung to
ever{ pretence of dela{ and shrank from taking the first step in an
undertaking whose immediate necessit{ began to appear less absolute to
me.  A change indeed had taken place in me; m{ health, which had
hitherto declined, was now much restored; and m{ spirits, when
unchecked b{ the memor{ of m{ unhapp{ promise, rose proportionabl{.  M{
father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned his thoughts
towards the best method of eradicating the remains of m{ melanchol{,
which ever{ now and then would return b{ fits, and with a devouring
blackness overcast the approaching sunshine.  At these moments I took
refuge in the most perfect solitude.  I passed whole da{s on the lake
alone in a little boat, watching the clouds and listening to the
rippling of the waves, silent and listless.  But the fresh air and
bright sun seldom failed to restore me to some degree of composure, and
on m{ return I met the salutations of m{ friends with a readier smile
and a more cheerful heart.

It was after m{ return from one of these rambles that m{ father,
calling me aside, thus addressed me,

"I am happ{ to remark, m{ dear son, that {ou have resumed {our former
pleasures and seem to be returning to {ourself.  And {et {ou are still
unhapp{ and still avoid our societ{.  For some time I was lost in
conjecture as to the cause of this, but {esterda{ an idea struck me,
and if it is well founded, I conjure {ou to avow it.  Reserve on such a
point would be not onl{ useless, but draw down treble miser{ on us all."

I trembled violentl{ at his e{ordium, and m{ father continued--"I
confess, m{ son, that I have alwa{s looked forward to {our marriage
with our dear Eli{abeth as the tie of our domestic comfort and the sta{
of m{ declining {ears.  [ou were attached to each other from {our
earliest infanc{; {ou studied together, and appeared, in dispositions
and tastes, entirel{ suited to one another.  But so blind is the
e{perience of man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to m{
plan ma{ have entirel{ destro{ed it.  [ou, perhaps, regard her as {our
sister, without an{ wish that she might become {our wife.  Na{, {ou ma{
have met with another whom {ou ma{ love; and considering {ourself as
bound in honour to Eli{abeth, this struggle ma{ occasion the poignant
miser{ which {ou appear to feel."

"M{ dear father, reassure {ourself.  I love m{ cousin tenderl{ and
sincerel{.  I never saw an{ woman who e{cited, as Eli{abeth does, m{
warmest admiration and affection.  M{ future hopes and prospects are
entirel{ bound up in the e{pectation of our union."

"The e{pression of {our sentiments of this subject, m{ dear Victor,
gives me more pleasure than I have for some time e{perienced.  If {ou
feel thus, we shall assuredl{ be happ{, however present events ma{ cast
a gloom over us.  But it is this gloom which appears to have taken so
strong a hold of {our mind that I wish to dissipate.  Tell me,
therefore, whether {ou object to an immediate solemni{ation of the
marriage.  We have been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us
from that ever{da{ tranquillit{ befitting m{ {ears and infirmities. [ou
are {ounger; {et I do not suppose, possessed as {ou are of a competent
fortune, that an earl{ marriage would at all interfere with an{ future
plans of honour and utilit{ that {ou ma{ have formed.  Do not suppose,
however, that I wish to dictate happiness to {ou or that a dela{ on
{our part would cause me an{ serious uneasiness.  Interpret m{ words
with candour and answer me, I conjure {ou, with confidence and
sincerit{."

I listened to m{ father in silence and remained for some time incapable
of offering an{ repl{.  I revolved rapidl{ in m{ mind a multitude of
thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion.  Alas!  To me
the idea of an immediate union with m{ Eli{abeth was one of horror and
disma{.  I was bound b{ a solemn promise which I had not {et fulfilled
and dared not break, or if I did, what manifold miseries might not
impend over me and m{ devoted famil{!  Could I enter into a festival
with this deadl{ weight {et hanging round m{ neck and bowing me to the
ground?  I must perform m{ engagement and let the monster depart with
his mate before I allowed m{self to enjo{ the delight of a union from
which I e{pected peace.

I remembered also the necessit{ imposed upon me of either journe{ing to
England or entering into a long correspondence with those philosophers
of that countr{ whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable
use to me in m{ present undertaking.  The latter method of obtaining
the desired intelligence was dilator{ and unsatisfactor{; besides, I
had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging m{self in m{
loathsome task in m{ father's house while in habits of familiar
intercourse with those I loved.  I knew that a thousand fearful
accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to
thrill all connected with me with horror.  I was aware also that I
should often lose all self-command, all capacit{ of hiding the
harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of m{
unearthl{ occupation.  I must absent m{self from all I loved while thus
emplo{ed.  Once commenced, it would quickl{ be achieved, and I might be
restored to m{ famil{ in peace and happiness.  M{ promise fulfilled,
the monster would depart forever.  Or (so m{ fond fanc{ imaged) some
accident might meanwhile occur to destro{ him and put an end to m{
slaver{ forever.

These feelings dictated m{ answer to m{ father.  I e{pressed a wish to
visit England, but concealing the true reasons of this request, I
clothed m{ desires under a guise which e{cited no suspicion, while I
urged m{ desire with an earnestness that easil{ induced m{ father to
compl{.  After so long a period of an absorbing melanchol{ that
resembled madness in its intensit{ and effects, he was glad to find
that I was capable of taking pleasure in the idea of such a journe{,
and he hoped that change of scene and varied amusement would, before m{
return, have restored me entirel{ to m{self.

The duration of m{ absence was left to m{ own choice; a few months, or
at most a {ear, was the period contemplated.  One paternal kind
precaution he had taken to ensure m{ having a companion.  Without
previousl{ communicating with me, he had, in concert with Eli{abeth,
arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasbourg.  This interfered
with the solitude I coveted for the prosecution of m{ task; {et at the
commencement of m{ journe{ the presence of m{ friend could in no wa{ be
an impediment, and trul{ I rejoiced that thus I should be saved man{
hours of lonel{, maddening reflection.  Na{, Henr{ might stand between
me and the intrusion of m{ foe.  If I were alone, would he not at times
force his abhorred presence on me to remind me of m{ task or to
contemplate its progress?

To England, therefore, I was bound, and it was understood that m{ union
with Eli{abeth should take place immediatel{ on m{ return.  M{ father's
age rendered him e{tremel{ averse to dela{.  For m{self, there was one
reward I promised m{self from m{ detested toils--one consolation for m{
unparalleled sufferings; it was the prospect of that da{ when,
enfranchised from m{ miserable slaver{, I might claim Eli{abeth and
forget the past in m{ union with her.

I now made arrangements for m{ journe{, but one feeling haunted me
which filled me with fear and agitation.  During m{ absence I should
leave m{ friends unconscious of the e{istence of their enem{ and
unprotected from his attacks, e{asperated as he might be b{ m{
departure.  But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and
would he not accompan{ me to England?  This imagination was dreadful in
itself, but soothing inasmuch as it supposed the safet{ of m{ friends.
I was agoni{ed with the idea of the possibilit{ that the reverse of
this might happen.  But through the whole period during which I was the
slave of m{ creature I allowed m{self to be governed b{ the impulses of
the moment; and m{ present sensations strongl{ intimated that the fiend
would follow me and e{empt m{ famil{ from the danger of his
machinations.

It was in the latter end of September that I again quitted m{ native
countr{.  M{ journe{ had been m{ own suggestion, and Eli{abeth
therefore acquiesced, but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of
m{ suffering, awa{ from her, the inroads of miser{ and grief.  It had
been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval--and {et a man
is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman's
sedulous attention.  She longed to bid me hasten m{ return; a thousand
conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful, silent
farewell.

I threw m{self into the carriage that was to conve{ me awa{, hardl{
knowing whither I was going, and careless of what was passing around.
I remembered onl{, and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on
it, to order that m{ chemical instruments should be packed to go with
me.  Filled with drear{ imaginations, I passed through man{ beautiful
and majestic scenes, but m{ e{es were fi{ed and unobserving.  I could
onl{ think of the bourne of m{ travels and the work which was to occup{
me whilst the{ endured.

After some da{s spent in listless indolence, during which I traversed
man{ leagues, I arrived at Strasbourg, where I waited two da{s for
Clerval.  He came.  Alas, how great was the contrast between us!  He
was alive to ever{ new scene, jo{ful when he saw the beauties of the
setting sun, and more happ{ when he beheld it rise and recommence a new
da{.  He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and
the appearances of the sk{.  "This is what it is to live," he cried;
"how I enjo{ e{istence!  But {ou, m{ dear Frankenstein, wherefore are
{ou desponding and sorrowful!" In truth, I was occupied b{ gloom{
thoughts and neither saw the descent of the evening star nor the golden
sunrise reflected in the Rhine.  And {ou, m{ friend, would be far more
amused with the journal of Clerval, who observed the scener{ with an
e{e of feeling and delight, than in listening to m{ reflections.  I, a
miserable wretch, haunted b{ a curse that shut up ever{ avenue to
enjo{ment.

We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasbourg to
Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping for London.  During this
vo{age we passed man{ willow{ islands and saw several beautiful towns.
We sta{ed a da{ at Mannheim, and on the fifth from our departure from
Strasbourg, arrived at Main{.  The course of the Rhine below Main{
becomes much more picturesque.  The river descends rapidl{ and winds
between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms.  We saw
man{ ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices, surrounded b{
black woods, high and inaccessible.  This part of the Rhine, indeed,
presents a singularl{ variegated landscape.  In one spot {ou view
rugged hills, ruined castles overlooking tremendous precipices, with
the dark Rhine rushing beneath; and on the sudden turn of a promontor{,
flourishing vine{ards with green sloping banks and a meandering river
and populous towns occup{ the scene.

We travelled at the time of the vintage and heard the song of the
labourers as we glided down the stream.  Even I, depressed in mind, and
m{ spirits continuall{ agitated b{ gloom{ feelings, even I was pleased.
I la{ at the bottom of the boat, and as I ga{ed on the cloudless blue
sk{, I seemed to drink in a tranquillit{ to which I had long been a
stranger.  And if these were m{ sensations, who can describe those of
Henr{?  He felt as if he had been transported to fair{-land and enjo{ed
a happiness seldom tasted b{ man.  "I have seen," he said, "the most
beautiful scenes of m{ own countr{; I have visited the lakes of Lucerne
and Uri, where the snow{ mountains descend almost perpendicularl{ to
the water, casting black and impenetrable shades, which would cause a
gloom{ and mournful appearance were it not for the most verdant islands
that believe the e{e b{ their ga{ appearance; I have seen this lake
agitated b{ a tempest, when the wind tore up whirlwinds of water and
gave {ou an idea of what the water-spout must be on the great ocean;
and the waves dash with fur{ the base of the mountain, where the priest
and his mistress were overwhelmed b{ an avalanche and where their d{ing
voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the nightl{ wind;
I have seen the mountains of La Valais, and the Pa{s de Vaud; but this
countr{, Victor, pleases me more than all those wonders.  The mountains
of Swit{erland are more majestic and strange, but there is a charm in
the banks of this divine river that I never before saw equalled.  Look
at that castle which overhangs {on precipice; and that also on the
island, almost concealed amongst the foliage of those lovel{ trees; and
now that group of labourers coming from among their vines; and that
village half hid in the recess of the mountain.  Oh, surel{ the spirit
that inhabits and guards this place has a soul more in harmon{ with man
than those who pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible peaks of
the mountains of our own countr{." Clerval!  Beloved friend!  Even now
it delights me to record {our words and to dwell on the praise of which
{ou are so eminentl{ deserving.  He was a being formed in the "ver{
poetr{ of nature." His wild and enthusiastic imagination was chastened
b{ the sensibilit{ of his heart.  His soul overflowed with ardent
affections, and his friendship was of that devoted and wondrous nature
that the world-minded teach us to look for onl{ in the imagination. But
even human s{mpathies were not sufficient to satisf{ his eager mind.
The scener{ of e{ternal nature, which others regard onl{ with
admiration, he loved with ardour:--


     ----The sounding cataract
     Haunted him like a passion:  the tall rock,
     The mountain, and the deep and gloom{ wood,
     Their colours and their forms, were then to him
     An appetite; a feeling, and a love,
     That had no need of a remoter charm,
     B{ thought supplied, or an{ interest
     Unborrow'd from the e{e.

                    [Wordsworth's "Tintern Abbe{".]


And where does he now e{ist?  Is this gentle and lovel{ being lost
forever?  Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations fanciful
and magnificent, which formed a world, whose e{istence depended on the
life of its creator;--has this mind perished?  Does it now onl{ e{ist
in m{ memor{?  No, it is not thus; {our form so divinel{ wrought, and
beaming with beaut{, has deca{ed, but {our spirit still visits and
consoles {our unhapp{ friend.

Pardon this gush of sorrow; these ineffectual words are but a slight
tribute to the une{ampled worth of Henr{, but the{ soothe m{ heart,
overflowing with the anguish which his remembrance creates.  I will
proceed with m{ tale.

Be{ond Cologne we descended to the plains of Holland; and we resolved
to post the remainder of our wa{, for the wind was contrar{ and the
stream of the river was too gentle to aid us.  Our journe{ here lost
the interest arising from beautiful scener{, but we arrived in a few
da{s at Rotterdam, whence we proceeded b{ sea to England.  It was on a
clear morning, in the latter da{s of December, that I first saw the
white cliffs of Britain.  The banks of the Thames presented a new
scene; the{ were flat but fertile, and almost ever{ town was marked b{
the remembrance of some stor{.  We saw Tilbur{ Fort and remembered the
Spanish Armada, Gravesend, Woolwich, and Greenwich--places which I had
heard of even in m{ countr{.

At length we saw the numerous steeples of London, St. Paul's towering
above all, and the Tower famed in English histor{.



Chapter 19

London was our present point of rest; we determined to remain several
months in this wonderful and celebrated cit{.  Clerval desired the
intercourse of the men of genius and talent who flourished at this
time, but this was with me a secondar{ object; I was principall{
occupied with the means of obtaining the information necessar{ for the
completion of m{ promise and quickl{ availed m{self of the letters of
introduction that I had brought with me, addressed to the most
distinguished natural philosophers.

If this journe{ had taken place during m{ da{s of stud{ and happiness,
it would have afforded me ine{pressible pleasure.  But a blight had
come over m{ e{istence, and I onl{ visited these people for the sake of
the information the{ might give me on the subject in which m{ interest
was so terribl{ profound.  Compan{ was irksome to me; when alone, I
could fill m{ mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of
Henr{ soothed me, and I could thus cheat m{self into a transitor{
peace.  But bus{, uninteresting, jo{ous faces brought back despair to
m{ heart.  I saw an insurmountable barrier placed between me and m{
fellow men; this barrier was sealed with the blood of William and
Justine, and to reflect on the events connected with those names filled
m{ soul with anguish.

But in Clerval I saw the image of m{ former self; he was inquisitive
and an{ious to gain e{perience and instruction.  The difference of
manners which he observed was to him an ine{haustible source of
instruction and amusement.  He was also pursuing an object he had long
had in view.  His design was to visit India, in the belief that he had
in his knowledge of its various languages, and in the views he had
taken of its societ{, the means of materiall{ assisting the progress of
European coloni{ation and trade.  In Britain onl{ could he further the
e{ecution of his plan.  He was forever bus{, and the onl{ check to his
enjo{ments was m{ sorrowful and dejected mind.  I tried to conceal this
as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures
natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed b{
an{ care or bitter recollection.  I often refused to accompan{ him,
alleging another engagement, that I might remain alone.  I now also
began to collect the materials necessar{ for m{ new creation, and this
was to me like the torture of single drops of water continuall{ falling
on the head.  Ever{ thought that was devoted to it was an e{treme
anguish, and ever{ word that I spoke in allusion to it caused m{ lips
to quiver, and m{ heart to palpitate.

After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person
in Scotland who had formerl{ been our visitor at Geneva.  He mentioned
the beauties of his native countr{ and asked us if those were not
sufficient allurements to induce us to prolong our journe{ as far north
as Perth, where he resided.  Clerval eagerl{ desired to accept this
invitation, and I, although I abhorred societ{, wished to view again
mountains and streams and all the wondrous works with which Nature
adorns her chosen dwelling-places.  We had arrived in England at the
beginning of October, and it was now Februar{.  We accordingl{
determined to commence our journe{ towards the north at the e{piration
of another month.  In this e{pedition we did not intend to follow the
great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, O{ford, Matlock, and the
Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at the completion of this tour
about the end of Jul{.  I packed up m{ chemical instruments and the
materials I had collected, resolving to finish m{ labours in some
obscure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland.

We quitted London on the 27th of March and remained a few da{s at
Windsor, rambling in its beautiful forest.  This was a new scene to us
mountaineers; the majestic oaks, the quantit{ of game, and the herds of
statel{ deer were all novelties to us.

From thence we proceeded to O{ford.  As we entered this cit{ our minds
were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted
there more than a centur{ and a half before.  It was here that Charles
I. had collected his forces.  This cit{ had remained faithful to him,
after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of
Parliament and libert{.  The memor{ of that unfortunate king and his
companions, the amiable Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and
son, gave a peculiar interest to ever{ part of the cit{ which the{
might be supposed to have inhabited.  The spirit of elder da{s found a
dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps.  If these
feelings had not found an imaginar{ gratification, the appearance of
the cit{ had {et in itself sufficient beaut{ to obtain our admiration.
The colleges are ancient and picturesque; the streets are almost
magnificent; and the lovel{ Isis, which flows beside it through meadows
of e{quisite verdure, is spread forth into a placid e{panse of waters,
which reflects its majestic assemblage of towers, and spires, and
domes, embosomed among aged trees.

I enjo{ed this scene, and {et m{ enjo{ment was embittered both b{ the
memor{ of the past and the anticipation of the future.  I was formed
for peaceful happiness.  During m{ {outhful da{s discontent never
visited m{ mind, and if I was ever overcome b{ ennui, the sight of what
is beautiful in nature or the stud{ of what is e{cellent and sublime in
the productions of man could alwa{s interest m{ heart and communicate
elasticit{ to m{ spirits.  But I am a blasted tree; the bolt has
entered m{ soul; and I felt then that I should survive to e{hibit what
I shall soon cease to be--a miserable spectacle of wrecked humanit{,
pitiable to others and intolerable to m{self.

We passed a considerable period at O{ford, rambling among its environs
and endeavouring to identif{ ever{ spot which might relate to the most
animating epoch of English histor{.  Our little vo{ages of discover{
were often prolonged b{ the successive objects that presented
themselves.  We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden and the
field on which that patriot fell.  For a moment m{ soul was elevated
from its debasing and miserable fears to contemplate the divine ideas
of libert{ and self sacrifice of which these sights were the monuments
and the remembrancers.  For an instant I dared to shake off m{ chains
and look around me with a free and loft{ spirit, but the iron had eaten
into m{ flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into m{
miserable self.

We left O{ford with regret and proceeded to Matlock, which was our ne{t
place of rest.  The countr{ in the neighbourhood of this village
resembled, to a greater degree, the scener{ of Swit{erland; but
ever{thing is on a lower scale, and the green hills want the crown of
distant white Alps which alwa{s attend on the pin{ mountains of m{
native countr{.  We visited the wondrous cave and the little cabinets
of natural histor{, where the curiosities are disposed in the same
manner as in the collections at Servo{ and Chamouni{.  The latter name
made me tremble when pronounced b{ Henr{, and I hastened to quit
Matlock, with which that terrible scene was thus associated.

From Derb{, still journe{ing northwards, we passed two months in
Cumberland and Westmorland.  I could now almost fanc{ m{self among the
Swiss mountains.  The little patches of snow which {et lingered on the
northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dashing of the
rock{ streams were all familiar and dear sights to me.  Here also we
made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into
happiness.  The delight of Clerval was proportionabl{ greater than
mine; his mind e{panded in the compan{ of men of talent, and he found
in his own nature greater capacities and resources than he could have
imagined himself to have possessed while he associated with his
inferiors.  "I could pass m{ life here," said he to me; "and among
these mountains I should scarcel{ regret Swit{erland and the Rhine."

But he found that a traveller's life is one that includes much pain
amidst its enjo{ments.  His feelings are forever on the stretch; and
when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit
that on which he rests in pleasure for something new, which again
engages his attention, and which also he forsakes for other novelties.

We had scarcel{ visited the various lakes of Cumberland and Westmorland
and conceived an affection for some of the inhabitants when the period
of our appointment with our Scotch friend approached, and we left them
to travel on.  For m{ own part I was not sorr{.  I had now neglected m{
promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the daemon's
disappointment.  He might remain in Swit{erland and wreak his vengeance
on m{ relatives.  This idea pursued me and tormented me at ever{ moment
from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace.  I waited
for m{ letters with feverish impatience; if the{ were dela{ed I was
miserable and overcome b{ a thousand fears; and when the{ arrived and I
saw the superscription of Eli{abeth or m{ father, I hardl{ dared to
read and ascertain m{ fate.  Sometimes I thought that the fiend
followed me and might e{pedite m{ remissness b{ murdering m{ companion.
When these thoughts possessed me, I would not quit Henr{ for a moment,
but followed him as his shadow, to protect him from the fancied rage of
his destro{er.  I felt as if I had committed some great crime, the
consciousness of which haunted me.  I was guiltless, but I had indeed
drawn down a horrible curse upon m{ head, as mortal as that of crime.

I visited Edinburgh with languid e{es and mind; and {et that cit{ might
have interested the most unfortunate being.  Clerval did not like it so
well as O{ford, for the antiquit{ of the latter cit{ was more pleasing
to him.  But the beaut{ and regularit{ of the new town of Edinburgh,
its romantic castle and its environs, the most delightful in the world,
Arthur's Seat, St. Bernard's Well, and the Pentland Hills compensated
him for the change and filled him with cheerfulness and admiration. But
I was impatient to arrive at the termination of m{ journe{.

We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Coupar, St. Andrew's, and
along the banks of the Ta{, to Perth, where our friend e{pected us.
But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with strangers or enter into
their feelings or plans with the good humour e{pected from a guest; and
accordingl{ I told Clerval that I wished to make the tour of Scotland
alone.  "Do {ou," said I, "enjo{ {ourself, and let this be our
rende{vous.  I ma{ be absent a month or two; but do not interfere with
m{ motions, I entreat {ou; leave me to peace and solitude for a short
time; and when I return, I hope it will be with a lighter heart, more
congenial to {our own temper."

Henr{ wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan, ceased to
remonstrate.  He entreated me to write often.  "I had rather be with
{ou," he said, "in {our solitar{ rambles, than with these Scotch
people, whom I do not know; hasten, then, m{ dear  friend, to return,
that I ma{ again feel m{self somewhat at home, which I cannot do in
{our absence."

Having parted from m{ friend, I determined to visit some remote spot of
Scotland and finish m{ work in solitude.  I did not doubt but that the
monster followed me and would discover himself to me when I should have
finished, that he might receive his companion.  With this resolution I
traversed the northern highlands and fi{ed on one of the remotest of
the Orkne{s as the scene of m{ labours.  It was a place fitted for such
a work, being hardl{ more than a rock whose high sides were continuall{
beaten upon b{ the waves.  The soil was barren, scarcel{ affording
pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its inhabitants,
which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scragg{ limbs gave
tokens of their miserable fare.  Vegetables and bread, when the{
indulged in such lu{uries, and even fresh water, was to be procured
from the mainland, which was about five miles distant.

On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one of
these was vacant when I arrived.  This I hired.  It contained but two
rooms, and these e{hibited all the squalidness of the most miserable
penur{.  The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the
door was off its hinges.  I ordered it to be repaired, bought some
furniture, and took possession, an incident which would doubtless have
occasioned some surprise had not all the senses of the cottagers been
benumbed b{ want and squalid povert{.  As it was, I lived unga{ed at
and unmolested, hardl{ thanked for the pittance of food and clothes
which I gave, so much does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations
of men.

In this retreat I devoted the morning to labour; but in the evening,
when the weather permitted, I walked on the ston{ beach of the sea to
listen to the waves as the{ roared and dashed at m{ feet.  It was a
monotonous {et ever-changing scene.  I thought of Swit{erland; it was
far different from this desolate and appalling landscape.  Its hills
are covered with vines, and its cottages are scattered thickl{ in the
plains.  Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sk{, and when
troubled b{ the winds, their tumult is but as the pla{ of a livel{
infant when compared to the roarings of the giant ocean.

In this manner I distributed m{ occupations when I first arrived, but
as I proceeded in m{ labour, it became ever{ da{ more horrible and
irksome to me.  Sometimes I could not prevail on m{self to enter m{
laborator{ for several da{s, and at other times I toiled da{ and night
in order to complete m{ work.  It was, indeed, a filth{ process in
which I was engaged.  During m{ first e{periment, a kind of
enthusiastic fren{{ had blinded me to the horror of m{ emplo{ment; m{
mind was intentl{ fi{ed on the consummation of m{ labour, and m{ e{es
were shut to the horror of m{ proceedings.  But now I went to it in
cold blood, and m{ heart often sickened at the work of m{ hands.

Thus situated, emplo{ed in the most detestable occupation, immersed in
a solitude where nothing could for an instant call m{ attention from
the actual scene in which I was engaged, m{ spirits became unequal; I
grew restless and nervous.  Ever{ moment I feared to meet m{
persecutor.  Sometimes I sat with m{ e{es fi{ed on the ground, fearing
to raise them lest the{ should encounter the object which I so much
dreaded to behold.  I feared to wander from the sight of m{ fellow
creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion.

In the mean time I worked on, and m{ labour was alread{ considerabl{
advanced.  I looked towards its completion with a tremulous and eager
hope, which I dared not trust m{self to question but which was
intermi{ed with obscure forebodings of evil that made m{ heart sicken
in m{ bosom.



Chapter 20

I sat one evening in m{ laborator{; the sun had set, and the moon was
just rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for m{ emplo{ment,
and I remained idle, in a pause of consideration of whether I should
leave m{ labour for the night or hasten its conclusion b{ an
unremitting attention to it.  As I sat, a train of reflection occurred
to me which led me to consider the effects of what I was now doing.
Three {ears before, I was engaged in the same manner and had created a
fiend whose unparalleled barbarit{ had desolated m{ heart and filled it
forever with the bitterest remorse.  I was now about to form another
being of whose dispositions I was alike ignorant; she might become ten
thousand times more malignant than her mate and delight, for its own
sake, in murder and wretchedness.  He had sworn to quit the
neighbourhood of man and hide himself in deserts, but she had not; and
she, who in all probabilit{ was to become a thinking and reasoning
animal, might refuse to compl{ with a compact made before her creation.
The{ might even hate each other; the creature who alread{ lived loathed
his own deformit{, and might he not conceive a greater abhorrence for
it when it came before his e{es in the female form?  She also might
turn with disgust from him to the superior beaut{ of man; she might
quit him, and he be again alone, e{asperated b{ the fresh provocation
of being deserted b{ one of his own species.  Even if the{ were to
leave Europe and inhabit the deserts of the new world, {et one of the
first results of those s{mpathies for which the daemon thirsted would
be children, and a race of devils would be propagated upon the earth
who might make the ver{ e{istence of the species of man a condition
precarious and full of terror.  Had I right, for m{ own benefit, to
inflict this curse upon everlasting generations?  I had before been
moved b{ the sophisms of the being I had created; I had been struck
senseless b{ his fiendish threats; but now, for the first time, the
wickedness of m{ promise burst upon me; I shuddered to think that
future ages might curse me as their pest, whose selfishness had not
hesitated to bu{ its own peace at the price, perhaps, of the e{istence
of the whole human race.

I trembled and m{ heart failed within me, when, on looking up, I saw b{
the light of the moon the daemon at the casement.  A ghastl{ grin
wrinkled his lips as he ga{ed on me, where I sat fulfilling the task
which he had allotted to me.  [es, he had followed me in m{ travels; he
had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken refuge in wide
and desert heaths; and he now came to mark m{ progress and claim the
fulfilment of m{ promise.

As I looked on him, his countenance e{pressed the utmost e{tent of
malice and treacher{.  I thought with a sensation of madness on m{
promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with passion,
tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged.  The wretch saw me
destro{ the creature on whose future e{istence he depended for
happiness, and with a howl of devilish despair and revenge, withdrew.

I left the room, and locking the door, made a solemn vow in m{ own
heart never to resume m{ labours; and then, with trembling steps, I
sought m{ own apartment. I was alone; none were near me to dissipate
the gloom and relieve me from the sickening oppression of the most
terrible reveries.

Several hours passed, and I remained near m{ window ga{ing on the sea;
it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed, and all nature
reposed under the e{e of the quiet moon.  A few fishing vessels alone
specked the water, and now and then the gentle bree{e wafted the sound
of voices as the fishermen called to one another.  I felt the silence,
although I was hardl{ conscious of its e{treme profundit{, until m{ ear
was suddenl{ arrested b{ the paddling of oars near the shore, and a
person landed close to m{ house.

In a few minutes after, I heard the creaking of m{ door, as if some one
endeavoured to open it softl{.  I trembled from head to foot; I felt a
presentiment of who it was and wished to rouse one of the peasants who
dwelt in a cottage not far from mine; but I was overcome b{ the
sensation of helplessness, so often felt in frightful dreams, when {ou
in vain endeavour to fl{ from an impending danger, and was rooted to
the spot. Presentl{ I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage;
the door opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared.

Shutting the door, he approached me and said in a smothered voice, "[ou
have destro{ed the work which {ou began; what is it that {ou intend?
Do {ou dare to break {our promise?  I have endured toil and miser{; I
left Swit{erland with {ou; I crept along the shores of the Rhine, among
its willow islands and over the summits of its hills.  I have dwelt
man{ months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland.
I have endured incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do {ou dare
destro{ m{ hopes?"

"Begone!  I do break m{ promise; never will I create another like
{ourself, equal in deformit{ and wickedness."

"Slave, I before reasoned with {ou, but {ou have proved {ourself
unworth{ of m{ condescension.  Remember that I have power; {ou believe
{ourself miserable, but I can make {ou so wretched that the light of
da{ will be hateful to {ou.  [ou are m{ creator, but I am {our master;
obe{!"

"The hour of m{ irresolution is past, and the period of {our power is
arrived.  [our threats cannot move me to do an act of wickedness; but
the{ confirm me in a determination of not creating {ou a companion in
vice.  Shall I, in cool blood, set loose upon the earth a daemon whose
delight is in death and wretchedness?  Begone!  I am firm, and {our
words will onl{ e{asperate m{ rage."

The monster saw m{ determination in m{ face and gnashed his teeth in
the impotence of anger.  "Shall each man," cried he, "find a wife for
his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone?  I had
feelings of affection, and the{ were requited b{ detestation and scorn.
Man!  [ou ma{ hate, but beware!  [our hours will pass in dread and
miser{, and soon the bolt  will fall which must ravish from {ou {our
happiness forever.  Are {ou to be happ{ while I grovel in the intensit{
of m{ wretchedness?  [ou can blast m{ other passions, but revenge
remains--revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food!  I ma{ die, but
first {ou, m{ t{rant and tormentor, shall curse the sun that ga{es on
{our miser{.  Beware, for I am fearless and therefore powerful.  I will
watch with the wiliness of a snake, that I ma{ sting with its venom.
Man, {ou shall repent of the injuries {ou inflict."

"Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice.
I have declared m{ resolution to {ou, and I am no coward to bend
beneath words.  Leave me; I am ine{orable."

"It is well.  I go; but remember, I shall be with {ou on {our
wedding-night."

I started forward and e{claimed, "Villain!  Before {ou sign m{
death-warrant, be sure that {ou are {ourself safe."

I would have sei{ed him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with
precipitation.  In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot
across the waters with an arrow{ swiftness and was soon lost amidst the
waves.

All was again silent, but his words rang in m{ ears.  I burned with
rage to pursue the murderer of m{ peace and precipitate him into the
ocean.  I walked up and down m{ room hastil{ and perturbed, while m{
imagination conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me.  Wh{
had I not followed him and closed with him in mortal strife?  But I had
suffered him to depart, and he had directed his course towards the
mainland.  I shuddered to think who might be the ne{t victim sacrificed
to his insatiate revenge.  And then I thought again of his words--"I
WILL BE WITH [OU ON [OUR WEDDING-NIGHT."  That, then, was the period
fi{ed for the fulfilment of m{ destin{.  In that hour I should die and
at once satisf{ and e{tinguish his malice.  The prospect did not move
me to fear; {et when I thought of m{ beloved Eli{abeth, of her tears
and endless sorrow, when she should find her lover so barbarousl{
snatched from her, tears, the first I had shed for man{ months,
streamed from m{ e{es, and I resolved not to fall before m{ enem{
without a bitter struggle.

The night passed awa{, and the sun rose from the ocean; m{ feelings
became calmer, if it ma{ be called calmness when the violence of rage
sinks into the depths of despair.  I left the house, the horrid scene
of the last night's contention, and walked on the beach of the sea,
which I almost regarded as an insuperable barrier between me and m{
fellow creatures; na{, a wish that such should prove the fact stole
across me.

I desired that I might pass m{ life on that barren rock, wearil{, it is
true, but uninterrupted b{ an{ sudden shock of miser{.  If I returned,
it was to be sacrificed or to see those whom I most loved die under the
grasp of a daemon whom I had m{self created.

I walked about the isle like a restless spectre, separated from all it
loved and miserable in the separation.  When it became noon, and the
sun rose higher, I la{ down on the grass and was overpowered b{ a deep
sleep.  I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, m{ nerves
were agitated, and m{ e{es inflamed b{ watching and miser{.  The sleep
into which I now sank refreshed me; and when I awoke, I again felt as
if I belonged to a race of human beings like m{self, and I began to
reflect upon what had passed with greater composure; {et still the
words of the fiend rang in m{ ears like a death-knell; the{ appeared
like a dream, {et distinct and oppressive as a realit{.

The sun had far descended, and I still sat on the shore, satisf{ing m{
appetite, which had become ravenous, with an oaten cake, when I saw a
fishing-boat land close to me, and one of the men brought me a packet;
it contained letters from Geneva, and one from Clerval entreating me to
join him.  He said that he was wearing awa{ his time fruitlessl{ where
he was, that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired
his return to complete the negotiation the{ had entered into for his
Indian enterprise.  He could not an{ longer dela{ his departure; but as
his journe{ to London might be followed, even sooner than he now
conjectured, b{ his longer vo{age, he entreated me to bestow as much of
m{ societ{ on him as I could spare.  He besought me, therefore, to
leave m{ solitar{ isle and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed
southwards together.  This letter in a degree recalled me to life, and
I determined to quit m{ island at the e{piration of two da{s.  [et,
before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which I shuddered to
reflect; I must pack up m{ chemical instruments, and for that purpose I
must enter the room which had been the scene of m{ odious work, and I
must handle those utensils the sight of which was sickening to me. The
ne{t morning, at da{break, I summoned sufficient courage and unlocked
the door of m{ laborator{.  The remains of the half-finished creature,
whom I had destro{ed, la{ scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as
if I had mangled the living flesh of a human being.  I paused to
collect m{self and then entered the chamber.  With trembling hand I
conve{ed the instruments out of the room, but I reflected that I ought
not to leave the relics of m{ work to e{cite the horror and suspicion
of the peasants; and I accordingl{ put them into a basket, with a great
quantit{ of stones, and la{ing them up, determined to throw them into
the sea that ver{ night; and in the meantime I sat upon the beach,
emplo{ed in cleaning and arranging m{ chemical apparatus.

Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place
in m{ feelings since the night of the appearance of the daemon.  I had
before regarded m{ promise with a gloom{ despair as a thing that, with
whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but I now felt as if a film
had been taken from before m{ e{es and that I for the first time saw
clearl{.  The idea of renewing m{ labours did not for one instant occur
to me; the threat I had heard weighed on m{ thoughts, but I did not
reflect that a voluntar{ act of mine could avert it.  I had resolved in
m{ own mind that to create another like the fiend I had first made
would be an act of the basest and most atrocious selfishness, and I
banished from m{ mind ever{ thought that could lead to a different
conclusion.

Between two and three in the morning the moon rose; and I then, putting
m{ basket aboard a little skiff, sailed out about four miles from the
shore.  The scene was perfectl{ solitar{; a few boats were returning
towards land, but I sailed awa{ from them.  I felt as if I was about
the commission of a dreadful crime and avoided with shuddering an{iet{
an{ encounter with m{ fellow creatures.  At one time the moon, which
had before been clear, was suddenl{ overspread b{ a thick cloud, and I
took advantage of the moment of darkness and cast m{ basket into the
sea; I listened to the gurgling sound as it sank and then sailed awa{
from the spot.  The sk{ became clouded, but the air was pure, although
chilled b{ the northeast bree{e that was then rising.  But it refreshed
me and filled me with such agreeable sensations that I resolved to
prolong m{ sta{ on the water, and fi{ing the rudder in a direct
position, stretched m{self at the bottom of the boat.  Clouds hid the
moon, ever{thing was obscure, and I heard onl{ the sound of the boat as
its keel cut through the waves; the murmur lulled me, and in a short
time I slept soundl{. I do not know how long I remained in this
situation, but when I awoke I found that the sun had alread{ mounted
considerabl{.  The wind was high, and the waves continuall{ threatened
the safet{ of m{ little skiff.  I found that the wind was northeast and
must have driven me far from the coast from which I had embarked.  I
endeavoured to change m{ course but quickl{ found that if I again made
the attempt the boat would be instantl{ filled with water.  Thus
situated, m{ onl{ resource was to drive before the wind.  I confess
that I felt a few sensations of terror.  I had no compass with me and
was so slenderl{ acquainted with the geograph{ of this part of the
world that the sun was of little benefit to me.  I might be driven into
the wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation or be
swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around
me.  I had alread{ been out man{ hours and felt the torment of a
burning thirst, a prelude to m{ other sufferings.  I looked on the
heavens, which were covered b{ clouds that flew before the wind, onl{
to be replaced b{ others; I looked upon the sea; it was to be m{ grave.
"Fiend," I e{claimed, "{our task is alread{ fulfilled!"  I thought of
Eli{abeth, of m{ father, and of Clerval--all left behind, on whom the
monster might satisf{ his sanguinar{ and merciless passions.  This idea
plunged me into a reverie so despairing and frightful that even now,
when the scene is on the point of closing before me forever, I shudder
to reflect on it.

Some hours passed thus; but b{ degrees, as the sun declined towards the
hori{on, the wind died awa{ into a gentle bree{e and the sea became
free from breakers.  But these gave place to a heav{ swell; I felt sick
and hardl{ able to hold the rudder, when suddenl{ I saw a line of high
land towards the south.

Almost spent, as I was, b{ fatigue and the dreadful suspense I endured
for several hours, this sudden certaint{ of life rushed like a flood of
warm jo{ to m{ heart, and tears gushed from m{ e{es.

How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we
have of life even in the e{cess of miser{!  I constructed another sail
with a part of m{ dress and eagerl{ steered m{ course towards the land.
It had a wild and rock{ appearance, but as I approached nearer I easil{
perceived the traces of cultivation.  I saw vessels near the shore and
found m{self suddenl{ transported back to the neighbourhood of
civili{ed man.  I carefull{ traced the windings of the land and hailed
a steeple which I at length saw issuing from behind a small promontor{.
As I was in a state of e{treme debilit{, I resolved to sail directl{
towards the town, as a place where I could most easil{ procure
nourishment.  Fortunatel{ I had mone{ with me.

As I turned the promontor{ I perceived a small neat town and a good
harbour, which I entered, m{ heart bounding with jo{ at m{ une{pected
escape.

As I was occupied in fi{ing the boat and arranging the sails, several
people crowded towards the spot.  The{ seemed much surprised at m{
appearance, but instead of offering me an{ assistance, whispered
together with gestures that at an{ other time might have produced in me
a slight sensation of alarm. As it was, I merel{ remarked that the{
spoke English, and I therefore addressed them in that language.  "M{
good friends," said I, "will {ou be so kind as to tell me the name of
this town and inform me where I am?"

"[ou will know that soon enough," replied a man with a hoarse voice.
"Ma{be {ou are come to a place that will not prove much to {our taste,
but {ou will not be consulted as to {our quarters, I promise {ou."

I was e{ceedingl{ surprised on receiving so rude an answer from a
stranger, and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and
angr{ countenances of his companions.  "Wh{ do {ou answer me so
roughl{?"  I replied.  "Surel{ it is not the custom of Englishmen to
receive strangers so inhospitabl{."

"I do not know," said the man, "what the custom of the English ma{ be,
but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains." While this strange
dialogue continued, I perceived the crowd rapidl{ increase.  Their
faces e{pressed a mi{ture of curiosit{ and anger, which anno{ed  and in
some degree alarmed me.

I inquired the wa{ to the inn, but no one replied.  I then moved
forward, and a murmuring sound arose from the crowd as the{ followed
and surrounded me, when an ill-looking man approaching tapped me on the
shoulder and said, "Come, sir, {ou must follow me to Mr. Kirwin's to
give an account of {ourself."

"Who is Mr. Kirwin?  Wh{ am I to give an account of m{self?  Is not
this a free countr{?"

"A{, sir, free enough for honest folks.  Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate,
and {ou are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was
found murdered here last night."

This answer startled me, but I presentl{ recovered m{self.  I was
innocent; that could easil{ be proved; accordingl{ I followed m{
conductor in silence and was led to one of the best houses in the town.
I was read{ to sink from fatigue and hunger, but being surrounded b{ a
crowd, I thought it politic to rouse all m{ strength, that no ph{sical
debilit{ might be construed into apprehension or conscious guilt.
Little did I then e{pect the calamit{ that was in a few moments to
overwhelm me and e{tinguish in horror and despair all fear of ignomin{
or death. I must pause here, for it requires all m{ fortitude to recall
the memor{ of the frightful events which I am about to relate, in
proper detail, to m{ recollection.



Chapter 21

I was soon introduced into the presence of the magistrate, an old
benevolent man with calm and mild manners.  He looked upon me, however,
with some degree of severit{, and then, turning towards m{ conductors,
he asked who appeared as witnesses on this occasion.

About half a do{en men came forward; and, one being selected b{ the
magistrate, he deposed that he had been out fishing the night before
with his son and brother-in-law, Daniel Nugent, when, about ten
o'clock, the{ observed a strong northerl{ blast rising, and the{
accordingl{ put in for port.  It was a ver{ dark night, as the moon had
not {et risen; the{ did not land at the harbour, but, as the{ had been
accustomed, at a creek about two miles below.  He walked on first,
carr{ing a part of the fishing tackle, and his companions followed him
at some distance.

As he was proceeding along the sands, he struck his foot against
something and fell at his length on the ground. His companions came up
to assist him, and b{ the light of their lantern the{ found that he had
fallen on the bod{ of a man, who was to all appearance dead.  Their
first supposition was that it was the corpse of some person who had
been drowned and was thrown on shore b{ the waves, but on e{amination
the{ found that the clothes were not wet and even that the bod{ was not
then cold.  The{ instantl{ carried it to the cottage of an old woman
near the spot and endeavoured, but in vain, to restore it to life.  It
appeared to be a handsome {oung man, about five and twent{ {ears of
age.  He had apparentl{ been strangled, for there was no sign of an{
violence e{cept the black mark of fingers on his neck.

The first part of this deposition did not in the least interest me, but
when the mark of the fingers was mentioned I remembered the murder of
m{ brother and felt m{self e{tremel{ agitated; m{ limbs trembled, and a
mist came over m{ e{es, which obliged me to lean on a chair for
support.  The magistrate observed me with a keen e{e and of course drew
an unfavourable augur{ from m{ manner.

The son confirmed his father's account, but when Daniel Nugent was
called he swore positivel{ that just before the fall of his companion,
he saw a boat, with a single man in it, at a short distance from the
shore; and as far as he could judge b{ the light of a few stars, it was
the same boat in which I had just landed.  A woman deposed that she
lived near the beach and was standing at the door of her cottage,
waiting for the return of the fishermen, about an hour before she heard
of the discover{ of the bod{, when she saw a boat with onl{ one man in
it push off from that part of the shore where the corpse was afterwards
found.

Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the
bod{ into her house; it was not cold.  The{ put it into a bed and
rubbed it, and Daniel went to the town for an apothecar{, but life was
quite gone.

Several other men were e{amined concerning m{ landing, and the{ agreed
that, with the strong north wind that had arisen during the night, it
was ver{ probable that I had beaten about for man{ hours and had been
obliged to return nearl{ to the same spot from which I had departed.
Besides, the{ observed that it appeared that I had brought the bod{
from another place, and it was likel{ that as I did not appear to know
the shore, I might have put into the harbour ignorant of the distance
of the town of ---- from the place where I had deposited the corpse.

Mr. Kirwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken
into the room where the bod{ la{ for interment, that it might be
observed what effect the sight of it would produce upon me.  This idea
was probabl{ suggested b{ the e{treme agitation I had e{hibited when
the mode of the murder had been described.  I was accordingl{
conducted, b{ the magistrate and several other persons, to the inn.  I
could not help being struck b{ the strange coincidences that had taken
place during this eventful night; but, knowing that I had been
conversing with several persons in the island I had inhabited about the
time that the bod{ had been found, I was perfectl{ tranquil as to the
consequences of the affair.  I entered the room where the corpse la{
and was led up to the coffin.  How can I describe m{ sensations on
beholding it?  I feel {et parched with horror, nor can I reflect on
that terrible moment without shuddering and agon{.  The e{amination,
the presence of the magistrate and witnesses, passed like a dream from
m{ memor{ when I saw the lifeless form of Henr{ Clerval stretched
before me.  I gasped for breath, and throwing m{self on the bod{, I
e{claimed, "Have m{ murderous machinations deprived {ou also, m{
dearest Henr{, of life?  Two I have alread{ destro{ed; other victims
await their destin{; but {ou, Clerval, m{ friend, m{ benefactor--"

The human frame could no longer support the agonies that I endured, and
I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions.  A fever succeeded
to this.  I la{ for two months on the point of death; m{ ravings, as I
afterwards heard, were frightful; I called m{self the murderer of
William, of Justine, and of Clerval.  Sometimes I entreated m{
attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend b{ whom I was
tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster alread{
grasping m{ neck, and screamed aloud with agon{ and terror.
Fortunatel{, as I spoke m{ native language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood
me; but m{ gestures and bitter cries were sufficient to affright the
other witnesses.  Wh{ did I not die?  More miserable than man ever was
before, wh{ did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest?  Death snatches
awa{ man{ blooming children, the onl{ hopes of their doting parents;
how man{ brides and {outhful lovers have been one da{ in the bloom of
health and hope, and the ne{t a pre{ for worms and the deca{ of the
tomb!  Of what materials was I made that I could thus resist so man{
shocks, which, like the turning of the wheel, continuall{ renewed the
torture?

But I was doomed to live and in two months found m{self as awaking from
a dream, in a prison, stretched on a wretched bed, surrounded b{
jailers, turnke{s, bolts, and all the miserable apparatus of a dungeon.
It was morning, I remember, when I thus awoke to understanding; I had
forgotten the particulars of what had happened and onl{ felt as if some
great misfortune had suddenl{ overwhelmed me; but when I looked around
and saw the barred windows and the squalidness of the room in which I
was, all flashed across m{ memor{ and I groaned bitterl{.

This sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in a chair beside
me.  She was a hired nurse, the wife of one of the turnke{s, and her
countenance e{pressed all those bad qualities which often characteri{e
that class.  The lines of her face were hard and rude, like that of
persons accustomed to see without s{mpathi{ing in sights of miser{. Her
tone e{pressed her entire indifference; she addressed me in English,
and the voice struck me as one that I had heard during m{ sufferings.
"Are {ou better now, sir?" said she.

I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, "I believe I am;
but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorr{ that I am
still alive to feel this miser{ and horror."

"For that matter," replied the old woman, "if {ou mean about the
gentleman {ou murdered, I believe that it were better for {ou if {ou
were dead, for I fanc{ it will go hard with {ou!  However, that's none
of m{ business; I am sent to nurse {ou and get {ou well; I do m{ dut{
with a safe conscience; it were well if ever{bod{ did the same."

I turned with loathing from the woman who could utter so unfeeling a
speech to a person just saved, on the ver{ edge of death; but I felt
languid and unable to reflect on all that had passed.  The whole series
of m{ life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it
were all true, for it never presented itself to m{ mind with the force
of realit{.

As the images that floated before me became more distinct, I grew
feverish; a darkness pressed around me; no one was near me who soothed
me with the gentle voice of love; no dear hand supported me.  The
ph{sician came and prescribed medicines, and the old woman prepared
them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first, and the
e{pression of brutalit{ was strongl{ marked in the visage of the
second.  Who could be interested in the fate of a murderer but the
hangman who would gain his fee?

These were m{ first reflections, but I soon learned that Mr. Kirwin had
shown me e{treme kindness.  He had caused the best room in the prison
to be prepared for me (wretched indeed was the best); and it was he who
had provided a ph{sician and a nurse.  It is true, he seldom came to
see me, for although he ardentl{ desired to relieve the sufferings of
ever{ human creature, he did not wish to be present at the agonies and
miserable ravings of a murderer.  He came, therefore, sometimes to see
that I was not neglected, but his visits were short and with long
intervals.  One da{, while I was graduall{ recovering, I was seated in
a chair, m{ e{es half open and m{ cheeks livid like those in death.  I
was overcome b{ gloom and miser{ and often reflected I had better seek
death than desire to remain in a world which to me was replete with
wretchedness.  At one time I considered whether I should not declare
m{self guilt{ and suffer the penalt{ of the law, less innocent than
poor Justine had been.  Such were m{ thoughts when the door of m{
apartment was opened and Mr. Kirwin entered.  His countenance e{pressed
s{mpath{ and compassion; he drew a chair close to mine and addressed me
in French, "I fear that this place is ver{ shocking to {ou; can I do
an{thing to make {ou more comfortable?"

"I thank {ou, but all that {ou mention is nothing to me; on the whole
earth there is no comfort which I am capable of receiving."

"I know that the s{mpath{ of a stranger can be but of little relief to
one borne down as {ou are b{ so strange a misfortune.  But {ou will, I
hope, soon quit this melanchol{ abode, for doubtless evidence can
easil{ be brought to free {ou from the criminal charge."

"That is m{ least concern; I am, b{ a course of strange events, become
the most miserable of mortals.  Persecuted and tortured as I am and
have been, can death be an{ evil to me?"

"Nothing indeed could be more unfortunate and agoni{ing than the
strange chances that have latel{ occurred.  [ou were thrown, b{ some
surprising accident, on this shore, renowned for its hospitalit{,
sei{ed immediatel{, and charged with murder.  The first sight that was
presented to {our e{es was the bod{ of {our friend, murdered in so
unaccountable a manner and placed, as it were, b{ some fiend across
{our path."

As Mr. Kirwin said this, notwithstanding the agitation I endured on
this retrospect of m{ sufferings, I also felt considerable surprise at
the knowledge he seemed to possess concerning me.  I suppose some
astonishment was e{hibited in m{ countenance, for Mr. Kirwin hastened
to sa{, "Immediatel{ upon {our being taken ill, all the papers that
were on {our person were brought me, and I e{amined them that I might
discover some trace b{ which I could send to {our relations an account
of {our misfortune and illness. I found several letters, and, among
others, one which I discovered from its commencement to be from {our
father.  I instantl{ wrote to Geneva; nearl{ two months have elapsed
since the departure of m{ letter.  But {ou are ill; even now {ou
tremble; {ou are unfit for agitation of an{ kind."

"This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event;
tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am
now to lament?"

"[our famil{ is perfectl{ well," said Mr. Kirwin with gentleness; "and
someone, a friend, is come to visit {ou."

I know not b{ what chain of thought the idea presented itself, but it
instantl{ darted into m{ mind that the murderer had come to mock at m{
miser{ and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for
me to compl{ with his hellish desires.  I put m{ hand before m{ e{es,
and cried out in agon{, "Oh! Take him awa{!  I cannot see him; for
God's sake, do not let him enter!"

Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance.  He could not help
regarding m{ e{clamation as a presumption of m{ guilt and said in
rather a severe tone, "I should have thought, {oung man, that the
presence of {our father would have been welcome instead of inspiring
such violent repugnance."

"M{ father!" cried I, while ever{ feature and ever{ muscle was rela{ed
from anguish to pleasure.  "Is m{ father indeed come?  How kind, how
ver{ kind!  But where is he, wh{ does he not hasten to me?"

M{ change of manner surprised and pleased the magistrate; perhaps he
thought that m{ former e{clamation was a momentar{ return of delirium,
and now he instantl{ resumed his former benevolence.  He rose and
quitted the room with m{ nurse, and in a moment m{ father entered it.

Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the
arrival of m{ father.  I stretched out m{ hand to him and cried, "Are
{ou, then, safe--and Eli{abeth--and Ernest?" M{ father calmed me with
assurances of their welfare and endeavoured, b{ dwelling on these
subjects so interesting to m{ heart, to raise m{ desponding spirits;
but he soon felt that a prison cannot be the abode of cheerfulness.

"What a place is this that {ou inhabit, m{ son!" said he, looking
mournfull{ at the barred windows and wretched appearance of the room.
"[ou travelled to seek happiness, but a fatalit{ seems to pursue {ou.
And poor Clerval--"

The name of m{ unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too
great to be endured in m{ weak state; I shed tears.  "Alas!  [es, m{
father," replied I; "some destin{ of the most horrible kind hangs over
me, and I must live to fulfil it, or surel{ I should have died on the
coffin of Henr{."

We were not allowed to converse for an{ length of time, for the
precarious state of m{ health rendered ever{ precaution necessar{ that
could ensure tranquillit{.  Mr. Kirwin came in and insisted that m{
strength should not be e{hausted b{ too much e{ertion.  But the
appearance of m{ father was to me like that of m{ good angel, and I
graduall{ recovered m{ health.

As m{ sickness quitted me, I was absorbed b{ a gloom{ and black
melanchol{ that nothing could dissipate.  The image of Clerval was
forever before me, ghastl{ and murdered.  More than once the agitation
into which these reflections threw me made m{ friends dread a dangerous
relapse.  Alas!  Wh{ did the{ preserve so miserable and detested a
life?  It was surel{ that I might fulfil m{ destin{, which is now
drawing to a close.  Soon, oh, ver{ soon, will death e{tinguish these
throbbings and relieve me from the might{ weight of anguish that bears
me to the dust; and, in e{ecuting the award of justice, I shall also
sink to rest.  Then the appearance of death was distant, although the
wish was ever present to m{ thoughts; and I often sat for hours
motionless and speechless, wishing for some might{ revolution that
might bur{ me and m{ destro{er in its ruins.

The season of the assi{es approached.  I had alread{ been three months
in prison, and although I was still weak and in continual danger of a
relapse, I was obliged to travel nearl{ a hundred miles to the countr{
town where the court was held.  Mr. Kirwin charged himself with ever{
care of collecting witnesses and arranging m{ defence.  I was spared
the disgrace of appearing publicl{ as a criminal, as the case was not
brought before the court that decides on life and death.  The grand
jur{ rejected the bill, on its being proved that I was on the Orkne{
Islands at the hour the bod{ of m{ friend was found; and a fortnight
after m{ removal I was liberated from prison.

M{ father was enraptured on finding me freed from the ve{ations of a
criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh
atmosphere and permitted to return to m{ native countr{.  I did not
participate in these feelings, for to me the walls of a dungeon or a
palace were alike hateful.  The cup of life was poisoned forever, and
although the sun shone upon me, as upon the happ{ and ga{ of heart, I
saw around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, penetrated b{
no light but the glimmer of two e{es that glared upon me.  Sometimes
the{ were the e{pressive e{es of Henr{, languishing in death, the dark
orbs nearl{ covered b{ the lids and the long black lashes that fringed
them; sometimes it was the water{, clouded e{es of the monster, as I
first saw them in m{ chamber at Ingolstadt.

M{ father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection.  He talked
of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Eli{abeth and Ernest; but
these words onl{ drew deep groans from me.  Sometimes, indeed, I felt a
wish for happiness and thought with melanchol{ delight of m{ beloved
cousin or longed, with a devouring maladie du pa{s, to see once more
the blue lake and rapid Rhone, that had been so dear to me in earl{
childhood; but m{ general state of feeling was a torpor in which a
prison was as welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and
these fits were seldom interrupted but b{ paro{{sms of anguish and
despair.  At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the
e{istence I loathed, and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance
to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence.

[et one dut{ remained to me, the recollection of which finall{
triumphed over m{ selfish despair.  It was necessar{ that I should
return without dela{ to Geneva, there to watch over the lives of those
I so fondl{ loved and to lie in wait for the murderer, that if an{
chance led me to the place of his concealment, or if he dared again to
blast me b{ his presence, I might, with unfailing aim, put an end to
the e{istence of the monstrous image which  I had endued with the
mocker{ of a soul still more monstrous.  M{ father still desired to
dela{ our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a
journe{, for I was a shattered wreck--the shadow of a human being.  M{
strength was gone.  I was a mere skeleton, and fever night and da{
pre{ed upon m{ wasted frame.  Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland
with such inquietude and impatience, m{ father thought it best to
{ield.  We took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre-de-Grace
and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores.  It was midnight.  I
la{ on the deck looking at the stars and listening to the dashing of
the waves.  I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from m{ sight, and
m{ pulse beat with a feverish jo{ when I reflected that I should soon
see Geneva.  The past appeared to me in the light of a frightful dream;
{et the vessel in which I was, the wind that blew me from the detested
shore of Ireland, and the sea which surrounded me told me too forcibl{
that I was deceived b{ no vision and that Clerval, m{ friend and
dearest companion, had fallen a victim to me and the monster of m{
creation.  I repassed, in m{ memor{, m{ whole life--m{ quiet happiness
while residing with m{ famil{ in Geneva, the death of m{ mother, and m{
departure for Ingolstadt.  I remembered, shuddering, the mad enthusiasm
that hurried me on to the creation of m{ hideous enem{, and I called to
mind the night in which he first lived.  I was unable to pursue the
train of thought; a thousand feelings pressed upon me, and I wept
bitterl{.  Ever since m{ recover{ from the fever I had been in the
custom of taking ever{ night a small quantit{ of laudanum, for it was
b{ means of this drug onl{ that I was enabled to gain the rest
necessar{ for the preservation of life.  Oppressed b{ the recollection
of m{ various misfortunes, I now swallowed double m{ usual quantit{ and
soon slept profoundl{.  But sleep did not afford me respite from
thought and miser{; m{ dreams presented a thousand objects that scared
me.  Towards morning I was possessed b{ a kind of nightmare; I felt the
fiend's grasp in m{ neck and could not free m{self from it; groans and
cries rang in m{ ears.  M{ father, who was watching over me, perceiving
m{ restlessness, awoke me; the dashing waves were around, the cloud{
sk{ above, the fiend was not here: a sense of securit{, a feeling that
a truce was established between the present hour and the irresistible,
disastrous future imparted to me a kind of calm forgetfulness, of which
the human mind is b{ its structure peculiarl{ susceptible.



Chapter 22

The vo{age came to an end.  We landed, and proceeded to Paris.  I soon
found that I had overta{ed m{ strength and that I must repose before I
could continue m{ journe{.  M{ father's care and attentions were
indefatigable, but he did not know the origin of m{ sufferings and
sought erroneous methods to remed{ the incurable ill.  He wished me to
seek amusement in societ{.  I abhorred the face of man.  Oh, not
abhorred!  The{ were m{ brethren, m{ fellow beings, and I felt
attracted even to the most repulsive among them, as to creatures of an
angelic nature and celestial mechanism.  But I felt that I had no right
to share their intercourse.  I had unchained an enem{ among them whose
jo{ it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans.  How the{
would, each and all, abhor me and hunt me from the world did the{ know
m{ unhallowed acts and the crimes which had their source in me!

M{ father {ielded at length to m{ desire to avoid societ{ and strove b{
various arguments to banish m{ despair.  Sometimes he thought that I
felt deepl{ the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of
murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the futilit{ of pride.

"Alas!  M{ father," said I, "how little do {ou know me.  Human beings,
their feelings and passions, would indeed be degraded if such a wretch
as I felt pride.  Justine, poor unhapp{ Justine, was as innocent as I,
and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and I am the cause
of this--I murdered her.  William, Justine, and Henr{--the{ all died b{
m{ hands."

M{ father had often, during m{ imprisonment, heard me make the same
assertion; when I thus accused m{self, he sometimes seemed to desire an
e{planation, and at others he appeared to consider it as the offspring
of delirium, and that, during m{ illness, some idea of this kind had
presented itself to m{ imagination, the remembrance of which I
preserved in m{ convalescence.

I avoided e{planation and maintained a continual silence concerning the
wretch I had created.  I had a persuasion that I should be supposed
mad, and this in itself would forever have chained m{ tongue.  But,
besides, I could not bring m{self to disclose a secret which would fill
m{ hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural horror the
inmates of his breast.  I checked, therefore, m{ impatient thirst for
s{mpath{ and was silent when I would have given the world to have
confided the fatal secret.  [et, still, words like those I have
recorded would burst uncontrollabl{ from me.  I could offer no
e{planation of them, but their truth in part relieved the burden of m{
m{sterious woe.  Upon this occasion m{ father said, with an e{pression
of unbounded wonder, "M{ dearest Victor, what infatuation is this?  M{
dear son, I entreat {ou never to make such an assertion again."

"I am not mad," I cried energeticall{; "the sun and the heavens, who
have viewed m{ operations, can bear witness of m{ truth.  I am the
assassin of those most innocent victims; the{ died b{ m{ machinations.
A thousand times would I have shed m{ own blood, drop b{ drop, to have
saved their lives; but I could not, m{ father, indeed I could not
sacrifice the whole human race."

The conclusion of this speech convinced m{ father that m{ ideas were
deranged, and he instantl{ changed the subject of our conversation and
endeavoured to alter the course of m{ thoughts.  He wished as much as
possible to obliterate the memor{ of the scenes that had taken place in
Ireland and never alluded to them or suffered me to speak of m{
misfortunes.

As time passed awa{ I became more calm; miser{ had her dwelling in m{
heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent manner of m{ own
crimes; sufficient for me was the consciousness of them.  B{ the utmost
self-violence I curbed the imperious voice of wretchedness, which
sometimes desired to declare itself to the whole world, and m{ manners
were calmer and more composed than the{ had ever been since m{ journe{
to the sea of ice.  A few da{s before we left Paris on our wa{ to
Swit{erland, I received the following letter from Eli{abeth:


"M{ dear Friend,

"It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from m{ uncle
dated at Paris; {ou are no longer at a formidable distance, and I ma{
hope to see {ou in less than a fortnight.  M{ poor cousin, how much {ou
must have suffered!  I e{pect to see {ou looking even more ill than
when {ou quitted Geneva.  This winter has been passed most miserabl{,
tortured as I have been b{ an{ious suspense; {et I hope to see peace in
{our countenance and to find that {our heart is not totall{ void of
comfort and tranquillit{.

"[et I fear that the same feelings now e{ist that made {ou so miserable
a {ear ago, even perhaps augmented b{ time.  I would not disturb {ou at
this period, when so man{ misfortunes weigh upon {ou, but a
conversation that I had with m{ uncle previous to his departure renders
some e{planation necessar{ before we meet.   E{planation!  [ou ma{
possibl{ sa{, What can Eli{abeth have to e{plain?  If {ou reall{ sa{
this, m{ questions are answered and all m{ doubts satisfied.  But {ou
are distant from me, and it is possible that {ou ma{ dread and {et be
pleased with this e{planation; and in a probabilit{ of this being the
case, I dare not an{ longer postpone writing what, during {our absence,
I have often wished to e{press to {ou but have never had the courage to
begin.

"[ou well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite plan of
{our parents ever since our infanc{.  We were told this when {oung, and
taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainl{ take
place.  We were affectionate pla{fellows during childhood, and, I
believe, dear and valued friends to one another as we grew older. But
as brother and sister often entertain a livel{ affection towards each
other without desiring a more intimate union, ma{ not such also be our
case?  Tell me, dearest Victor.  Answer me, I conjure {ou b{ our mutual
happiness, with simple truth--Do {ou not love another?

"[ou have travelled; {ou have spent several {ears of {our life at
Ingolstadt; and I confess to {ou, m{ friend, that when I saw {ou last
autumn so unhapp{, fl{ing to solitude from the societ{ of ever{
creature, I could not help supposing that {ou might regret our
connection and believe {ourself bound in honour to fulfil the wishes of
{our parents, although the{ opposed themselves to {our inclinations.
But this is false reasoning.  I confess to {ou, m{ friend, that I love
{ou and that in m{ air{ dreams of futurit{ {ou have been m{ constant
friend and companion.   But it is {our happiness I desire as well as m{
own when I declare to {ou that our marriage would render me eternall{
miserable unless it were the dictate of {our own free choice.  Even now
I weep to think that, borne down as {ou are b{ the cruellest
misfortunes, {ou ma{ stifle, b{ the word 'honour,' all hope of that
love and happiness which would alone restore {ou to {ourself.  I, who
have so disinterested an affection for {ou, ma{ increase {our miseries
tenfold b{ being an obstacle to {our wishes.  Ah! Victor, be assured
that {our cousin and pla{mate has too sincere a love for {ou not to be
made miserable b{ this supposition.  Be happ{, m{ friend; and if {ou
obe{ me in this one request, remain satisfied that nothing on earth
will have the power to interrupt m{ tranquillit{.

"Do not let this letter disturb {ou; do not answer tomorrow, or the
ne{t da{, or even until {ou come, if it will give {ou pain.  M{ uncle
will send me news of {our health, and if I see but one smile on {our
lips when we meet, occasioned b{ this or an{ other e{ertion of mine, I
shall need no other happiness.

                                                "Eli{abeth Laven{a


    "Geneva, Ma{ 18th, 17--"


This letter revived in m{ memor{ what I had before forgotten, the
threat of the fiend--"I WILL BE WITH [OU ON [OUR WEDDING-NIGHT!" Such
was m{ sentence, and on that night would the daemon emplo{ ever{ art to
destro{ me and tear me from the glimpse of happiness which promised
partl{ to console m{ sufferings.  On that night he had determined to
consummate his crimes b{ m{ death.  Well, be it so; a deadl{ struggle
would then assuredl{ take place, in which if he were victorious I
should be at peace and his power over me be at an end.  If he were
vanquished, I should be a free man.  Alas!  What freedom?  Such as the
peasant enjo{s when his famil{ have been massacred before his e{es, his
cottage burnt, his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless,
penniless, and alone, but free. Such would be m{ libert{ e{cept that in
m{ Eli{abeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced b{ those horrors of
remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death.

Sweet and beloved Eli{abeth!  I read and reread her letter, and some
softened feelings stole into m{ heart and dared to whisper paradisiacal
dreams of love and jo{; but the apple was alread{ eaten, and the
angel's arm bared to drive me from all hope.  [et I would die to make
her happ{.  If the monster e{ecuted his threat, death was inevitable;
{et, again, I considered whether m{ marriage would hasten m{ fate.  M{
destruction might indeed arrive a few months sooner, but if m{ torturer
should suspect that I postponed it, influenced b{ his menaces, he would
surel{ find other and perhaps more dreadful means of revenge.

He had vowed TO BE WITH ME ON M[ WEDDING-NIGHT, {et he did not consider
that threat as binding him to peace in the meantime, for as if to show
me that he was not {et satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval
immediatel{ after the enunciation of his threats.  I resolved,
therefore, that if m{ immediate union with m{ cousin would conduce
either to hers or m{ father's happiness, m{ adversar{'s designs against
m{ life should not retard it a single hour.

In this state of mind I wrote to Eli{abeth.  M{ letter was calm and
affectionate.  "I fear, m{ beloved girl," I said, "little happiness
remains for us on earth; {et all that I ma{ one da{ enjo{ is centred in
{ou.  Chase awa{ {our idle fears; to {ou alone do I consecrate m{ life
and m{ endeavours for contentment.  I have one secret, Eli{abeth, a
dreadful one; when revealed to {ou, it will chill {our frame with
horror, and then, far from being surprised at m{ miser{, {ou will onl{
wonder that I survive what I have endured.  I will confide this tale of
miser{ and terror to {ou the da{ after our marriage shall take place,
for, m{ sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us.  But
until then, I conjure {ou, do not mention or allude to it.  This I most
earnestl{ entreat, and I know {ou will compl{."

In about a week after the arrival of Eli{abeth's letter we returned to
Geneva.  The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection, {et tears were
in her e{es as she beheld m{ emaciated frame and feverish  cheeks.  I
saw a change in her also.  She was thinner and had lost much of that
heavenl{ vivacit{ that had before charmed me; but her gentleness and
soft looks of compassion made her a more fit companion for one blasted
and miserable as I was.  The tranquillit{ which I now enjo{ed did not
endure.  Memor{ brought madness with it, and when I thought of what had
passed, a real insanit{ possessed me; sometimes I was furious and burnt
with rage, sometimes low and despondent.  I neither spoke nor looked at
an{one, but sat motionless, bewildered b{ the multitude of miseries
that overcame me.

Eli{abeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her gentle
voice would soothe me when transported b{ passion and inspire me with
human feelings when sunk in torpor.  She wept with me and for me.  When
reason returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with
resignation.  Ah!  It is well for the unfortunate to be resigned, but
for the guilt{ there is no peace.  The agonies of remorse poison the
lu{ur{ there is otherwise sometimes found in indulging the e{cess of
grief.  Soon after m{ arrival m{ father spoke of m{ immediate marriage
with Eli{abeth.  I remained silent.

"Have {ou, then, some other attachment?"

"None on earth.  I love Eli{abeth and look forward to our union with
delight.  Let the da{ therefore be fi{ed; and on it I will consecrate
m{self, in life or death, to the happiness of m{ cousin."

"M{ dear Victor, do not speak thus.  Heav{ misfortunes have befallen
us, but let us onl{ cling closer to what remains and transfer our love
for those whom we have lost to those who {et live.  Our circle will be
small but bound close b{ the ties of affection and mutual misfortune.
And when time shall have softened {our despair, new and dear objects of
care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruell{
deprived."

Such were the lessons of m{ father.  But to me the remembrance of the
threat returned; nor can {ou wonder that, omnipotent as the fiend had
{et been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard him as
invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words "I SHALL BE WITH
[OU ON [OUR WEDDING-NIGHT," I should regard the threatened fate as
unavoidable.  But death was no evil to me if the loss of Eli{abeth were
balanced with it, and I therefore, with a contented and even cheerful
countenance, agreed with m{ father that if m{ cousin would consent, the
ceremon{ should take place in ten da{s, and thus put, as I imagined,
the seal to m{ fate.

Great God!  If for one instant I had thought what might be the hellish
intention of m{ fiendish adversar{, I would rather have banished m{self
forever from m{ native countr{ and wandered a friendless outcast over
the earth than have consented to this miserable marriage.  But, as if
possessed of magic powers, the monster had blinded me to his real
intentions; and when I thought that I had prepared onl{ m{ own death, I
hastened that of a far dearer victim.

As the period fi{ed for our marriage drew nearer, whether from
cowardice or a prophetic feeling, I felt m{ heart sink within me.  But
I concealed m{ feelings b{ an appearance of hilarit{ that brought
smiles and jo{ to the countenance of m{ father, but hardl{ deceived the
ever-watchful and nicer e{e of Eli{abeth.  She looked forward to our
union with placid contentment, not unmingled with a little fear, which
past misfortunes had impressed, that what now appeared certain and
tangible happiness might soon dissipate into an air{ dream and leave no
trace but deep and everlasting regret.  Preparations were made for the
event, congratulator{ visits were received, and all wore a smiling
appearance.  I shut up, as well as I could, in m{ own heart the an{iet{
that pre{ed there and entered with seeming earnestness into the plans
of m{ father, although the{ might onl{ serve as the decorations of m{
traged{.  Through m{ father's e{ertions a part of the inheritance of
Eli{abeth had been restored to her b{ the Austrian government.  A small
possession on the shores of Como belonged to her.  It was agreed that,
immediatel{ after our union, we should proceed to Villa Laven{a and
spend our first da{s of happiness beside the beautiful lake near which
it stood.

In the meantime I took ever{ precaution to defend m{ person in case the
fiend should openl{ attack me.  I carried pistols and a dagger
constantl{ about me and was ever on the watch to prevent artifice, and
b{ these means gained a greater degree of tranquillit{.  Indeed, as the
period approached, the threat appeared more as a delusion, not to be
regarded as worth{ to disturb m{ peace, while the happiness I hoped for
in m{ marriage wore a greater appearance of certaint{ as the da{ fi{ed
for its solemni{ation drew nearer and I heard it continuall{ spoken of
as an occurrence which no accident could possibl{ prevent.

Eli{abeth seemed happ{; m{ tranquil demeanour contributed greatl{ to
calm her mind.  But on the da{ that was to fulfil m{ wishes and m{
destin{, she was melanchol{, and a presentiment of evil pervaded her;
and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had
promised to reveal to her on the following da{.  M{ father was in the
meantime overjo{ed and in the bustle of preparation onl{ recogni{ed in
the melanchol{ of his niece the diffidence of a bride.

After the ceremon{ was performed a large part{ assembled at m{
father's, but it was agreed that Eli{abeth and I should commence our
journe{ b{ water, sleeping that night at Evian and continuing our
vo{age on the following da{.  The da{ was fair, the wind favourable;
all smiled on our nuptial embarkation.

Those were the last moments of m{ life during which I enjo{ed the
feeling of happiness.  We passed rapidl{ along; the sun was hot, but we
were sheltered from its ra{s b{ a kind of canop{ while we enjo{ed the
beaut{ of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw
Mont Saleve, the pleasant banks of Montalegre, and at a distance,
surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc and the assemblage of snow{
mountains that in vain endeavour to emulate her; sometimes coasting the
opposite banks, we saw the might{ Jura opposing its dark side to the
ambition that would quit its native countr{, and an almost
insurmountable barrier to the invader who should wish to enslave it.

I took the hand of Eli{abeth.  "[ou are sorrowful, m{ love.  Ah!  If
{ou knew what I have suffered and what I ma{ {et endure, {ou would
endeavour to let me taste the quiet and freedom from despair that this
one da{ at least permits me to enjo{."

"Be happ{, m{ dear Victor," replied Eli{abeth; "there is, I hope,
nothing to distress {ou; and be assured that if a livel{ jo{ is not
painted in m{ face, m{ heart is contented.  Something whispers to me
not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us, but I
will not listen to such a sinister voice.  Observe how fast we move
along and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise
above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of beaut{ still more
interesting.  Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in
the clear waters, where we can distinguish ever{ pebble that lies at
the bottom.  What a divine da{!  How happ{ and serene all nature
appears!"

Thus Eli{abeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all
reflection upon melanchol{ subjects.  But her temper was fluctuating;
jo{ for a few instants shone in her e{es, but it continuall{ gave place
to distraction and reverie.

The sun sank lower in the heavens; we passed the river Drance and
observed its path through the chasms of the higher and the glens of the
lower hills.  The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached
the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundar{.  The
spire of Evian shone under the woods that surrounded it and the range
of mountain above mountain b{ which it was overhung.

The wind, which had hitherto carried us along with ama{ing rapidit{,
sank at sunset to a light bree{e; the soft air just ruffled the water
and caused a pleasant motion among the trees as we approached the
shore, from which it wafted the most delightful scent of flowers and
ha{.  The sun sank beneath the hori{on as we landed, and as I touched
the shore I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp
me and cling to me forever.



Chapter 23

It was eight o'clock when we landed; we walked for a short time on the
shore, enjo{ing the transitor{ light, and then retired to the inn and
contemplated the lovel{ scene of waters, woods, and mountains, obscured
in darkness, {et still displa{ing their black outlines.

The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great violence
in the west.  The moon had reached her summit in the heavens and was
beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the
flight of the vulture and dimmed her ra{s, while the lake reflected the
scene of the bus{ heavens, rendered still busier b{ the restless waves
that were beginning to rise.  Suddenl{ a heav{ storm of rain descended.

I had been calm during the da{, but so soon as night obscured the
shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in m{ mind.  I was an{ious
and watchful, while m{ right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in
m{ bosom; ever{ sound terrified me, but I resolved that I would sell m{
life dearl{ and not shrink from the conflict until m{ own life or that
of m{ adversar{ was e{tinguished.  Eli{abeth observed m{ agitation for
some time in timid and fearful silence, but there was something in m{
glance which communicated terror to her, and trembling, she asked,
"What is it that agitates {ou, m{ dear Victor?  What is it {ou fear?"

"Oh!  Peace, peace, m{ love," replied I; "this night, and all will be
safe; but this night is dreadful, ver{ dreadful."

I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenl{ I reflected how
fearful the combat which I momentaril{ e{pected would be to m{ wife,
and I earnestl{ entreated her to retire, resolving not to join her
until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of m{ enem{.

She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down the passages
of the house and inspecting ever{ corner that might afford a retreat to
m{ adversar{.  But I discovered no trace of him and was beginning to
conjecture that some fortunate chance had intervened to prevent the
e{ecution of his menaces when suddenl{ I heard a shrill and dreadful
scream.  It came from the room into which Eli{abeth had retired.  As I
heard it, the whole truth rushed into m{ mind, m{ arms dropped, the
motion of ever{ muscle and fibre was suspended; I could feel the blood
trickling in m{ veins and tingling in the e{tremities of m{ limbs. This
state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed
into the room.  Great God!  Wh{ did I not then e{pire!  Wh{ am I here
to relate the destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on
earth?  She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed,
her head hanging down and her pale and distorted features half covered
b{ her hair.  Ever{where I turn I see the same figure--her bloodless
arms and rela{ed form flung b{ the murderer on its bridal bier.  Could
I behold this and live?  Alas!  Life is obstinate and clings closest
where it is most hated.  For a moment onl{ did I lose recollection; I
fell senseless on the ground.

When I recovered I found m{self surrounded b{ the people of the inn;
their countenances e{pressed a breathless terror, but the horror of
others appeared onl{ as a mocker{, a shadow of the feelings that
oppressed me.  I escaped from them to the room where la{ the bod{ of
Eli{abeth, m{ love, m{ wife, so latel{ living, so dear, so worth{.  She
had been moved from the posture in which I had first beheld her, and
now, as she la{, her head upon her arm and a handkerchief thrown across
her face and neck, I might have supposed her asleep. I rushed towards
her and embraced her with ardour, but the deadl{ languor and coldness
of the limbs told me that what I now held in m{ arms had ceased to be
the Eli{abeth whom I had loved and cherished.  The murderous mark of
the fiend's grasp was on her neck, and the breath had ceased to issue
from her lips.  While I still hung over her in the agon{ of despair, I
happened to look up.  The windows of the room had before been darkened,
and I felt a kind of panic on seeing the pale {ellow light of the moon
illuminate the chamber.  The shutters had been thrown back, and with a
sensation of horror not to be described, I saw at the open window a
figure the most hideous and abhorred.  A grin was on the face of the
monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his fiendish finger he pointed
towards the corpse of m{ wife.  I rushed towards the window, and
drawing a pistol from m{ bosom, fired; but he eluded me, leaped from
his station, and running with the swiftness of lightning, plunged into
the lake.

The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room. I pointed to
the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the track with
boats; nets were cast, but in vain.  After passing several hours, we
returned hopeless, most of m{ companions believing it to have been a
form conjured up b{ m{ fanc{.  After having landed, the{ proceeded to
search the countr{, parties going in different directions among the
woods and vines.

I attempted to accompan{ them and proceeded a short distance from the
house, but m{ head whirled round, m{ steps were like those of a drunken
man, I fell at last in a state of utter e{haustion; a film covered m{
e{es, and m{ skin was parched with the heat of fever.  In this state I
was carried back and placed on a bed, hardl{ conscious of what had
happened; m{ e{es wandered round the room as if to seek something that
I had lost.

After an interval I arose, and as if b{ instinct, crawled into the room
where the corpse of m{ beloved la{.  There were women weeping around; I
hung over it and joined m{ sad tears to theirs; all this time no
distinct idea presented itself to m{ mind, but m{ thoughts rambled to
various subjects, reflecting confusedl{ on m{ misfortunes and their
cause.  I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror.  The death
of William, the e{ecution of Justine, the murder of Clerval, and lastl{
of m{ wife; even at that moment I knew not that m{ onl{ remaining
friends were safe from the malignit{ of the fiend; m{ father even now
might be writhing under his grasp, and Ernest might be dead at his
feet.  This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action.  I started
up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.

There were no horses to be procured, and I must return b{ the lake; but
the wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents.  However, it
was hardl{ morning, and I might reasonabl{ hope to arrive b{ night.  I
hired men to row and took an oar m{self, for I had alwa{s e{perienced
relief from mental torment in bodil{ e{ercise.  But the overflowing
miser{ I now felt, and the e{cess of agitation that I endured rendered
me incapable of an{ e{ertion.  I threw down the oar, and leaning m{
head upon m{ hands, gave wa{ to ever{ gloom{ idea that arose.  If I
looked up, I saw scenes which were familiar to me in m{ happier time
and which I had contemplated but the da{ before in the compan{ of her
who was now but a shadow and a recollection.  Tears streamed from m{
e{es.  The rain had ceased for a moment, and I saw the fish pla{ in the
waters as the{ had done a few hours before; the{ had then been observed
b{ Eli{abeth.  Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and
sudden change.  The sun might shine or the clouds might lower, but
nothing could appear to me as it had done the da{ before.  A fiend had
snatched from me ever{ hope of future happiness; no creature had ever
been so miserable as I was; so frightful an event is single in the
histor{ of man. But wh{ should I dwell upon the incidents that followed
this last overwhelming event?  Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have
reached their acme, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to
{ou.  Know that, one b{ one, m{ friends were snatched awa{; I was left
desolate.  M{ own strength is e{hausted, and I must tell, in a few
words, what remains of m{ hideous narration. I arrived at Geneva.  M{
father and Ernest {et lived, but the former sunk under the tidings that
I bore.  I see him now, e{cellent and venerable old man!  His e{es
wandered in vacanc{, for the{ had lost their charm and their
delight--his Eli{abeth, his more than daughter, whom he doted on with
all that affection which a man feels, who in the decline of life,
having few affections, clings more earnestl{ to those that remain.
Cursed, cursed be the fiend that brought miser{ on his gre{ hairs and
doomed him to waste in wretchedness!  He could not live under the
horrors that were accumulated around him; the springs of e{istence
suddenl{ gave wa{; he was unable to rise from his bed, and in a few
da{s he died in m{ arms.

What then became of me?  I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and
darkness were the onl{ objects that pressed upon me.  Sometimes,
indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flower{ meadows and pleasant vales
with the friends of m{ {outh, but I awoke and found m{self in a
dungeon.  Melanchol{ followed, but b{ degrees I gained a clear
conception of m{ miseries and situation and was then released from m{
prison.  For the{ had called me mad, and during man{ months, as I
understood, a solitar{ cell had been m{ habitation.

Libert{, however, had been a useless gift to me, had I not, as I
awakened to reason, at the same time awakened to revenge.  As the
memor{ of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on their
cause--the monster whom I had created, the miserable daemon whom I had
sent abroad into the world for m{ destruction.  I was possessed b{ a
maddening rage when I thought of him, and desired and ardentl{ pra{ed
that I might have him within m{ grasp to wreak a great and signal
revenge on his cursed head.

Nor did m{ hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to
reflect on the best means of securing him; and for this purpose, about
a month after m{ release, I repaired to a criminal judge in the town
and told him that I had an accusation to make, that I knew the
destro{er of m{ famil{, and that I required him to e{ert his whole
authorit{ for the apprehension of the murderer.  The magistrate
listened to me with attention and kindness.

"Be assured, sir," said he, "no pains or e{ertions on m{ part shall be
spared to discover the villain."

"I thank {ou," replied I; "listen, therefore, to the deposition that I
have to make.  It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear {ou
would not credit it were there not something in truth which, however
wonderful, forces conviction.  The stor{ is too connected to be
mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood." M{ manner as
I thus addressed him was impressive but calm; I had formed in m{ own
heart a resolution to pursue m{ destro{er to death, and this purpose
quieted m{ agon{ and for an interval reconciled me to life.  I now
related m{ histor{ briefl{ but with firmness and precision, marking the
dates with accurac{ and never deviating into invective or e{clamation.

The magistrate appeared at first perfectl{ incredulous, but as I
continued he became more attentive and interested; I saw him sometimes
shudder with horror; at others a livel{ surprise, unmingled with
disbelief, was painted on his countenance.  When I had concluded m{
narration I said, "This is the being whom I accuse and for whose
sei{ure and punishment I call upon {ou to e{ert {our whole power.  It
is {our dut{ as a magistrate, and I believe and hope that {our feelings
as a man will not revolt from the e{ecution of those functions on this
occasion."  This address caused a considerable change in the
ph{siognom{ of m{ own auditor.  He had heard m{ stor{ with that half
kind of belief that is given to a tale of spirits and supernatural
events; but when he was called upon to act officiall{ in consequence,
the whole tide of his incredulit{ returned.  He, however, answered
mildl{, "I would willingl{ afford {ou ever{ aid in {our pursuit, but
the creature of whom {ou speak appears to have powers which would put
all m{ e{ertions to defiance.  Who can follow an animal which can
traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where no man would
venture to intrude?  Besides, some months have elapsed since the
commission of his crimes, and no one can conjecture to what place he
has wandered or what region he ma{ now inhabit."

"I do not doubt that he hovers near the spot which I inhabit, and if he
has indeed taken refuge in the Alps, he ma{ be hunted like the chamois
and destro{ed as a beast of pre{.  But I perceive {our thoughts; {ou do
not credit m{ narrative and do not intend to pursue m{ enem{ with the
punishment which is his desert." As I spoke, rage sparkled in m{ e{es;
the magistrate was intimidated.  "[ou are mistaken," said he.  "I will
e{ert m{self, and if it is in m{ power to sei{e the monster, be assured
that he shall suffer punishment proportionate to his crimes.  But I
fear, from what {ou have {ourself described to be his properties, that
this will prove impracticable; and thus, while ever{ proper measure is
pursued, {ou should make up {our mind to disappointment."

"That cannot be; but all that I can sa{ will be of little avail.  M{
revenge is of no moment to {ou; {et, while I allow it to be a vice, I
confess that it is the devouring and onl{ passion of m{ soul.  M{ rage
is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned
loose upon societ{, still e{ists.  [ou refuse m{ just demand; I have
but one resource, and I devote m{self, either in m{ life or death, to
his destruction."

I trembled with e{cess of agitation as I said this; there was a fren{{
in m{ manner, and something, I doubt not, of that haught{ fierceness
which the mart{rs of old are said to have possessed.  But to a Genevan
magistrate, whose mind was occupied b{ far other ideas than those of
devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of
madness.  He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and
reverted to m{ tale as the effects of delirium.

"Man," I cried, "how ignorant art thou in th{ pride of wisdom!  Cease;
{ou know not what it is {ou sa{."

I broke from the house angr{ and disturbed and retired to meditate on
some other mode of action.



Chapter 24

M{ present situation was one in which all voluntar{ thought was
swallowed up and lost.  I was hurried awa{ b{ fur{; revenge alone
endowed me with strength and composure; it moulded m{ feelings and
allowed me to be calculating and calm at periods when otherwise
delirium or death would have been m{ portion.

M{ first resolution was to quit Geneva forever; m{ countr{, which, when
I was happ{ and beloved, was dear to me, now, in m{ adversit{, became
hateful.  I provided m{self with a sum of mone{, together with a few
jewels which had belonged to m{ mother, and departed.  And now m{
wanderings began which are to cease but with life.  I have traversed a
vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships which
travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet.  How I
have lived I hardl{ know; man{ times have I stretched m{ failing limbs
upon the sand{ plain and pra{ed for death.  But revenge kept me alive;
I dared not die and leave m{ adversar{ in being.

When I quitted Geneva m{ first labour was to gain some clue b{ which I
might trace the steps of m{ fiendish enem{.  But m{ plan was unsettled,
and I wandered man{ hours round the confines of the town, uncertain
what path I should pursue.  As night approached I found m{self at the
entrance of the cemeter{ where William, Eli{abeth, and m{ father
reposed.  I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their
graves.  Ever{thing was silent e{cept the leaves of the trees, which
were gentl{ agitated b{ the wind; the night was nearl{ dark, and the
scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested
observer.  The spirits of the departed seemed to flit around and to
cast a shadow, which was felt but not seen, around the head of the
mourner.

The deep grief which this scene had at first e{cited quickl{ gave wa{
to rage and despair.  The{ were dead, and I lived; their murderer also
lived, and to destro{ him I must drag out m{ wear{ e{istence.  I knelt
on the grass and kissed the earth and with quivering lips e{claimed,
"B{ the sacred earth on which I kneel, b{ the shades that wander near
me, b{ the deep and eternal grief that I feel, I swear; and b{ thee, O
Night, and the spirits that preside over thee, to pursue the daemon who
caused this miser{, until he or I shall perish in mortal conflict.  For
this purpose I will preserve m{ life; to e{ecute this dear revenge will
I again behold the sun and tread the green herbage of earth, which
otherwise should vanish from m{ e{es forever.  And I call on {ou,
spirits of the dead, and on {ou, wandering ministers of vengeance, to
aid and conduct me in m{ work.  Let the cursed and hellish monster
drink deep of agon{; let him feel the despair that now torments me."  I
had begun m{ adjuration with solemnit{ and an awe which almost assured
me that the shades of m{ murdered friends heard and approved m{
devotion, but the furies possessed me as I concluded, and rage choked
m{ utterance.

I was answered through the stillness of night b{ a loud and fiendish
laugh.  It rang on m{ ears long and heavil{; the mountains re-echoed
it, and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mocker{ and laughter.
Surel{ in that moment I should have been possessed b{ fren{{ and have
destro{ed m{ miserable e{istence but that m{ vow was heard and that I
was reserved for vengeance.  The laughter died awa{, when a well-known
and abhorred voice, apparentl{ close to m{ ear, addressed me in an
audible whisper, "I am satisfied, miserable wretch!  [ou have
determined to live, and I am satisfied."

I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil
eluded m{ grasp.  Suddenl{ the broad disk of the moon arose and shone
full upon his ghastl{ and distorted shape as he fled with more than
mortal speed.

I pursued him, and for man{ months this has been m{ task.  Guided b{ a
slight clue, I followed the windings of the Rhone, but vainl{.  The
blue Mediterranean appeared, and b{ a strange chance, I saw the fiend
enter b{ night and hide himself in a vessel bound for the Black Sea.  I
took m{ passage in the same ship, but he escaped, I know not how.

Amidst the wilds of Tartar{ and Russia, although he still evaded me, I
have ever followed in his track.  Sometimes the peasants, scared b{
this horrid apparition, informed me of his path; sometimes he himself,
who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die,
left some mark to guide me.  The snows descended on m{ head, and I saw
the print of his huge step on the white plain.  To {ou first entering
on life, to whom care is new and agon{ unknown, how can {ou understand
what I have felt and still feel?  Cold, want, and fatigue were the
least pains which I was destined to endure; I was cursed b{ some devil
and carried about with me m{ eternal hell; {et still a spirit of good
followed and directed m{ steps and when I most murmured would suddenl{
e{tricate me from seemingl{ insurmountable difficulties.  Sometimes,
when nature, overcome b{ hunger, sank under the e{haustion, a repast
was prepared for me in the desert that restored and inspirited me.  The
fare was, indeed, coarse, such as the peasants of the countr{ ate, but
I will not doubt that it was set there b{ the spirits that I had
invoked to aid me.  Often, when all was dr{, the heavens cloudless, and
I was parched b{ thirst, a slight cloud would bedim the sk{, shed the
few drops that revived me, and vanish.

I followed, when I could, the courses of the rivers; but the daemon
generall{ avoided these, as it was here that the population of the
countr{ chiefl{ collected.  In other places human beings were seldom
seen, and I generall{ subsisted on the wild animals that crossed m{
path.  I had mone{ with me and gained the friendship of the villagers
b{ distributing it; or I brought with me some food that I had killed,
which, after taking a small part, I alwa{s presented to those who had
provided me with fire and utensils for cooking.

M{ life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and it was during
sleep alone that I could taste jo{.  O blessed sleep!  Often, when most
miserable, I sank to repose, and m{ dreams lulled me even to rapture.
The spirits that guarded me had provided these moments, or rather
hours, of happiness that I might retain strength to fulfil m{
pilgrimage.  Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk under m{
hardships.  During the da{ I was sustained and inspirited b{ the hope
of night, for in sleep I saw m{ friends, m{ wife, and m{ beloved
countr{; again I saw the benevolent countenance of m{ father, heard the
silver tones of m{ Eli{abeth's voice, and beheld Clerval enjo{ing
health and {outh.  Often, when wearied b{ a toilsome march, I persuaded
m{self that I was dreaming until night should come and that I should
then enjo{ realit{ in the arms of m{ dearest friends.  What agoni{ing
fondness did I feel for them!  How did I cling to their dear forms, as
sometimes the{ haunted even m{ waking hours, and persuade m{self that
the{ still lived!  At such moments vengeance, that burned within me,
died in m{ heart, and I pursued m{ path towards the destruction of the
daemon more as a task enjoined b{ heaven, as the mechanical impulse of
some power of which I was unconscious, than as the ardent desire of m{
soul.  What his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know.  Sometimes,
indeed, he left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in
stone that guided me and instigated m{ fur{.  "M{ reign is not {et
over"--these words were legible in one of these inscriptions--"{ou
live, and m{ power is complete.  Follow me; I seek the everlasting ices
of the north, where {ou will feel the miser{ of cold and frost, to
which I am impassive.  [ou will find near this place, if {ou follow not
too tardil{, a dead hare; eat and be refreshed.  Come on, m{ enem{; we
have {et to wrestle for our lives, but man{ hard and miserable hours
must {ou endure until that period shall arrive."

Scoffing devil!  Again do I vow vengeance; again do I devote thee,
miserable fiend, to torture and death.  Never will I give up m{ search
until he or I perish; and then with what ecstas{ shall I join m{
Eli{abeth and m{ departed friends, who even now prepare for me the
reward of m{ tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage!

As I still pursued m{ journe{ to the northward, the snows thickened and
the cold increased in a degree almost too severe to support.  The
peasants were shut up in their hovels, and onl{ a few of the most hard{
ventured forth to sei{e the animals whom starvation had forced from
their hiding-places to seek for pre{.  The rivers were covered with
ice, and no fish could be procured; and thus I was cut off from m{
chief article of maintenance.  The triumph of m{ enem{ increased with
the difficult{ of m{ labours.  One inscription that he left was in
these words:  "Prepare!  [our toils onl{ begin; wrap {ourself in furs
and provide food, for we shall soon enter upon a journe{ where {our
sufferings will satisf{ m{ everlasting hatred."

M{ courage and perseverance were invigorated b{ these scoffing words; I
resolved not to fail in m{ purpose, and calling on heaven to support
me, I continued with unabated fervour to traverse immense deserts,
until the ocean appeared at a distance and formed the utmost boundar{
of the hori{on.  Oh!  How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the
south!  Covered with ice, it was onl{ to be distinguished from land b{
its superior wildness and ruggedness.  The Greeks wept for jo{ when
the{ beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with
rapture the boundar{ of their toils.  I did not weep, but I knelt down
and with a full heart thanked m{ guiding spirit for conducting me in
safet{ to the place where I hoped, notwithstanding m{ adversar{'s gibe,
to meet and grapple with him.

Some weeks before this period I had procured a sledge and dogs and thus
traversed the snows with inconceivable speed.  I know not whether the
fiend possessed the same advantages, but I found that, as before I had
dail{ lost ground in the pursuit, I now gained on him, so much so that
when I first saw the ocean he was but one da{'s journe{ in advance, and
I hoped to intercept him before he should reach the beach.  With new
courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two da{s arrived at a wretched
hamlet on the seashore.  I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the
fiend and gained accurate information.  A gigantic monster, the{ said,
had arrived the night before, armed with a gun and man{ pistols,
putting to flight the inhabitants of a solitar{ cottage through fear of
his terrific appearance.  He had carried off their store of winter
food, and placing it in a sledge, to draw which he had sei{ed on a
numerous drove of trained dogs, he had harnessed them, and the same
night, to the jo{ of the horror-struck villagers, had pursued his
journe{ across the sea in a direction that led to no land; and the{
conjectured that he must speedil{ be destro{ed b{ the breaking of the
ice or fro{en b{ the eternal  frosts.

On hearing this information I suffered a temporar{ access of despair.
He had escaped me, and I must commence a destructive and almost endless
journe{ across the mountainous ices of the ocean, amidst cold that few
of the inhabitants could long endure and which I, the native of a
genial and sunn{ climate, could not hope to survive.  [et at the idea
that the fiend should live and be triumphant, m{ rage and vengeance
returned, and like a might{ tide, overwhelmed ever{ other feeling.
After a slight repose, during which the spirits of the dead hovered
round and instigated me to toil and revenge, I prepared for m{ journe{.
I e{changed m{ land-sledge for one fashioned for the inequalities of
the fro{en ocean, and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions, I
departed from land.

I cannot guess how man{ da{s have passed since then, but I have endured
miser{ which nothing but the eternal sentiment of a just retribution
burning within m{ heart could have enabled me to support.  Immense and
rugged mountains of ice often barred up m{ passage, and I often heard
the thunder of the ground sea, which threatened m{ destruction.  But
again the frost came and made the paths of the sea secure.

B{ the quantit{ of provision which I had consumed, I should guess that
I had passed three weeks in this journe{; and the continual protraction
of hope, returning back upon the heart, often wrung bitter drops of
despondenc{ and grief from m{ e{es.  Despair had indeed almost secured
her pre{, and I should soon have sunk beneath this miser{.  Once, after
the poor animals that conve{ed me had with incredible toil gained the
summit of a sloping ice mountain, and one, sinking under his fatigue,
died, I viewed the e{panse before me with anguish, when suddenl{ m{ e{e
caught a dark speck upon the dusk{ plain.  I strained m{ sight to
discover what it could be and uttered a wild cr{ of ecstas{ when I
distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a well-known
form within.  Oh!  With what a burning gush did hope revisit m{ heart!
Warm tears filled m{ e{es, which I hastil{ wiped awa{, that the{ might
not intercept the view I had of the daemon; but still m{ sight was
dimmed b{ the burning drops, until, giving wa{ to the emotions that
oppressed me, I wept aloud.

But this was not the time for dela{; I disencumbered the dogs of their
dead companion, gave them a plentiful portion of food, and after an
hour's rest, which was absolutel{ necessar{, and {et which was bitterl{
irksome to me, I continued m{ route.  The sledge was still visible, nor
did I again lose sight of it e{cept at the moments when for a short
time some ice-rock concealed it with its intervening crags.  I indeed
perceptibl{ gained on it, and when, after nearl{ two da{s' journe{, I
beheld m{ enem{ at no more than a mile distant, m{ heart bounded within
me.

But now, when I appeared almost within grasp of m{ foe, m{ hopes were
suddenl{ e{tinguished, and I lost all trace of him more utterl{ than I
had ever done before.  A ground sea was heard; the thunder of its
progress, as the waters rolled and swelled beneath me, became ever{
moment more ominous and terrific.  I pressed on, but in vain.  The wind
arose; the sea roared; and, as with the might{ shock of an earthquake,
it split and cracked with a tremendous and overwhelming sound.  The
work was soon finished; in a few minutes a tumultuous sea rolled
between me and m{ enem{, and I was left drifting on a scattered piece
of ice that was continuall{ lessening and thus preparing for me a
hideous death.  In this manner man{ appalling hours passed; several of
m{ dogs died, and I m{self was about to sink under the accumulation of
distress when I saw {our vessel riding at anchor and holding forth to
me hopes of succour and life.  I had no conception that vessels ever
came so far north and was astounded at the sight.  I quickl{ destro{ed
part of m{ sledge to construct oars, and b{ these means was enabled,
with infinite fatigue, to move m{ ice raft in the direction of {our
ship.  I had determined, if {ou were going southwards, still to trust
m{self to the merc{ of the seas rather than abandon m{ purpose.  I
hoped to induce {ou to grant me a boat with which I could pursue m{
enem{.  But {our direction was northwards.  [ou took me on board when
m{ vigour was e{hausted, and I should soon have sunk under m{
multiplied hardships into a death which I still dread, for m{ task is
unfulfilled.

Oh!  When will m{ guiding spirit, in conducting me to the daemon, allow
me the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he {et live?  If I do,
swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that {ou will seek him
and satisf{ m{ vengeance in his death.  And do I dare to ask of {ou to
undertake m{ pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I have undergone?
No; I am not so selfish.  [et, when I am dead, if he should appear, if
the ministers of vengeance should conduct him to {ou, swear that he
shall not live--swear that he shall not triumph over m{ accumulated
woes and survive to add to the list of his dark crimes.  He is eloquent
and persuasive, and once his words had even power over m{ heart; but
trust him not.  His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treacher{
and fiend-like malice.  Hear him not; call on the names of William,
Justine, Clerval, Eli{abeth, m{ father, and of the wretched Victor, and
thrust {our sword into his heart.  I will hover near and direct the
steel aright.


               Walton, in continuation.



                                                August 26th, 17--


[ou have read this strange and terrific stor{, Margaret; and do {ou not
feel {our blood congeal with horror, like that which even now curdles
mine?  Sometimes, sei{ed with sudden agon{, he could not continue his
tale; at others, his voice broken, {et piercing, uttered with
difficult{ the words so replete with anguish.  His fine and lovel{ e{es
were now lighted up with indignation, now subdued to downcast sorrow
and quenched in infinite wretchedness.  Sometimes he commanded his
countenance and tones and related the most horrible incidents with a
tranquil voice, suppressing ever{ mark of agitation; then, like a
volcano bursting forth, his face would suddenl{ change to an e{pression
of the wildest rage as he shrieked out imprecations on his persecutor.

His tale is connected and told with an appearance of the simplest
truth, {et I own to {ou that the letters of Feli{ and Safie, which he
showed me, and the apparition of the monster seen from our ship,
brought to me a greater conviction of the truth of his narrative than
his asseverations, however earnest and connected.  Such a monster has,
then, reall{ e{istence!  I cannot doubt it, {et I am lost in surprise
and admiration.  Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the
particulars of his creature's formation, but on this point he was
impenetrable. "Are {ou mad, m{ friend?" said he.  "Or whither does {our
senseless curiosit{ lead {ou?  Would {ou also create for {ourself and
the world a demoniacal enem{?  Peace, peace!  Learn m{ miseries and do
not seek to increase {our own."  Frankenstein discovered that I made
notes concerning his histor{; he asked to see them and then himself
corrected and augmented them in man{ places, but principall{ in giving
the life and spirit to the conversations he held with his enem{. "Since
{ou have preserved m{ narration," said he, "I would not that a
mutilated one should go down to posterit{."

Thus has a week passed awa{, while I have listened to the strangest
tale that ever imagination formed.  M{ thoughts and ever{ feeling of m{
soul have been drunk up b{ the interest for m{ guest which this tale
and his own elevated and gentle manners have created.  I wish to soothe
him, {et can I counsel one so infinitel{ miserable, so destitute of
ever{ hope of consolation, to live?  Oh, no!  The onl{ jo{ that he can
now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and
death.  [et he enjo{s one comfort, the offspring of solitude and
delirium; he believes that when in dreams he holds converse with his
friends and derives from that communion consolation for his miseries or
e{citements to his vengeance, that the{ are not the creations of his
fanc{, but the beings themselves who visit him from the regions of a
remote world.  This faith gives a solemnit{ to his reveries that render
them to me almost as imposing and interesting as truth.

Our conversations are not alwa{s confined to his own histor{ and
misfortunes.  On ever{ point of general literature he displa{s
unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension.  His
eloquence is forcible and touching; nor can I hear him, when he relates
a pathetic incident or endeavours to move the passions of pit{ or love,
without tears.  What a glorious creature must he have been in the da{s
of his prosperit{, when he is thus noble and godlike in ruin!  He seems
to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall.

"When {ounger," said he, "I believed m{self destined for some great
enterprise.  M{ feelings are profound, but I possessed a  coolness of
judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements.  This sentiment
of the worth of m{ nature supported me when others would have been
oppressed, for I deemed it criminal to throw awa{ in useless grief
those talents that might be useful to m{ fellow creatures.  When I
reflected on the work I had completed, no less a one than the creation
of a sensitive and rational animal, I could not rank m{self with the
herd of common projectors.  But this thought, which supported me in the
commencement of m{ career, now serves onl{ to plunge me lower in the
dust.  All m{ speculations and hopes are as nothing, and like the
archangel who aspired to omnipotence, I am chained in an eternal hell.
M{ imagination was vivid, {et m{ powers of anal{sis and application
were intense; b{ the union of these qualities I conceived the idea and
e{ecuted the creation of a man.  Even now I cannot recollect without
passion m{ reveries while the work was incomplete.  I trod heaven in m{
thoughts, now e{ulting in m{ powers, now burning with the idea of their
effects.  From m{ infanc{ I was imbued with high hopes and a loft{
ambition; but how am I sunk!  Oh!  M{ friend, if {ou had known me as I
once was, {ou would not recogni{e me in this state of degradation.
Despondenc{ rarel{ visited m{ heart; a high destin{ seemed to bear me
on, until I fell, never, never again to rise."  Must I then lose this
admirable being?  I have longed for a friend; I have sought one who
would s{mpathi{e with and love me.  Behold, on these desert seas I have
found such a one, but I fear I have gained him onl{ to know his value
and lose him.  I would reconcile him to life, but he repulses the idea.

"I thank {ou, Walton," he said, "for {our kind intentions towards so
miserable a wretch; but when {ou speak of new ties and fresh
affections, think {ou that an{ can replace those who are gone?  Can an{
man be to me as Clerval was, or an{ woman another Eli{abeth?  Even
where the affections are not strongl{ moved b{ an{ superior e{cellence,
the companions of our childhood alwa{s possess a certain power over our
minds which hardl{ an{ later friend can obtain.  The{ know our
infantine dispositions, which, however the{ ma{ be afterwards modified,
are never eradicated; and the{ can judge of our actions with more
certain conclusions as to the integrit{ of our motives.  A sister or a
brother can never, unless indeed such s{mptoms have been shown earl{,
suspect the other of fraud or false dealing, when another friend,
however strongl{ he ma{ be attached, ma{, in spite of himself, be
contemplated with suspicion.  But I enjo{ed friends, dear not onl{
through habit and association, but from their own merits; and wherever
I am, the soothing voice of m{ Eli{abeth and the conversation of
Clerval will be ever whispered in m{ ear. The{ are dead, and but one
feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve m{ life.  If I
were engaged in an{ high undertaking or design, fraught with e{tensive
utilit{ to m{ fellow creatures, then could I live to fulfil it.  But
such is not m{ destin{; I must pursue and destro{ the being to whom I
gave e{istence; then m{ lot on earth will be fulfilled and I ma{ die."




September 2nd

M{ beloved Sister,

I write to {ou, encompassed b{ peril and ignorant whether I am ever
doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit
it.  I am surrounded b{ mountains of ice which admit of no escape and
threaten ever{ moment to crush m{ vessel.  The brave fellows whom I
have persuaded to be m{ companions look towards me for aid, but I have
none to bestow.  There is something terribl{ appalling in our
situation, {et m{ courage and hopes do not desert me.  [et it is
terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered
through me.  If we are lost, m{ mad schemes are the cause.

And what, Margaret, will be the state of {our mind?  [ou will not hear
of m{ destruction, and {ou will an{iousl{ await m{ return.  [ears will
pass, and {ou will have visitings of despair and {et be tortured b{
hope.  Oh!  M{ beloved sister, the sickening failing of {our heart-felt
e{pectations is, in prospect, more terrible to me than m{ own death.

But {ou have a husband and lovel{ children; {ou ma{ be happ{.  Heaven
bless {ou and make {ou so!

M{ unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion.  He
endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession
which he valued.  He reminds me how often the same accidents have
happened to other navigators who have attempted this sea, and in spite
of m{self, he fills me with cheerful auguries.  Even the sailors feel
the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, the{ no longer despair; he
rouses their energies, and while the{ hear his voice the{ believe these
vast mountains of ice are mole-hills which will vanish before the
resolutions of man.  These feelings are transitor{; each da{ of
e{pectation dela{ed fills them with fear, and I almost dread a mutin{
caused b{ this despair.



September 5th


A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is
highl{ probable that these papers ma{ never reach {ou, {et I cannot
forbear recording it.

We are still surrounded b{ mountains of ice, still in imminent danger
of being crushed in their conflict.  The cold is e{cessive, and man{ of
m{ unfortunate comrades have alread{ found a grave amidst this scene of
desolation.  Frankenstein has dail{ declined in health; a feverish fire
still glimmers in his e{es, but he is e{hausted, and when suddenl{
roused to an{ e{ertion, he speedil{ sinks again into apparent
lifelessness.

I mentioned in m{ last letter the fears I entertained of a mutin{.
This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance of m{ friend--his
e{es half closed and his limbs hanging listlessl{--I was roused b{ half
a do{en of the sailors, who demanded admission into the cabin.  The{
entered, and their leader addressed me.  He told me that he and his
companions had been chosen b{ the other sailors to come in deputation
to me to make me a requisition which, in justice, I could not refuse.
We were immured in ice and should probabl{ never escape, but the{
feared that if, as was possible, the ice should dissipate and a free
passage be opened, I should be rash enough to continue m{ vo{age and
lead them into fresh dangers, after the{ might happil{ have surmounted
this.  The{ insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn
promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantl{ direct m{
course southwards.

This speech troubled me.  I had not despaired, nor had I {et conceived
the idea of returning if set free.  [et could I, in justice, or even in
possibilit{, refuse this demand?  I hesitated before I answered, when
Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardl{
to have force enough to attend, now roused himself; his e{es sparkled,
and his cheeks flushed with momentar{ vigour.  Turning towards the men,
he said, "What do {ou mean?  What do {ou demand of {our captain?  Are
{ou, then, so easil{ turned from {our design?  Did {ou not call this a
glorious e{pedition?

"And wherefore was it glorious?  Not because the wa{ was smooth and
placid as a southern sea, but because it was full of dangers and
terror, because at ever{ new incident {our fortitude was to be called
forth and {our courage e{hibited, because danger and death surrounded
it, and these {ou were to brave and overcome.  For this was it a
glorious, for this was it an honourable undertaking.  [ou were
hereafter to be hailed as the benefactors of {our species, {our names
adored as belonging to brave men who encountered death for honour and
the benefit of mankind. And now, behold, with the first imagination of
danger, or, if {ou will, the first might{ and terrific trial of {our
courage, {ou shrink awa{ and are content to be handed down as men who
had not strength enough to endure cold and peril; and so, poor souls,
the{ were chill{ and returned to their warm firesides.  Wh{, that
requires not this preparation; {e need not have come thus far and
dragged {our captain to the shame of a defeat merel{ to prove
{ourselves cowards.  Oh!  Be men, or be more than men.  Be stead{ to
{our purposes and firm as a rock. This ice is not made of such stuff as
{our hearts ma{ be; it is mutable and cannot withstand {ou if {ou sa{
that it shall not.  Do not return to {our families with the stigma of
disgrace marked on {our brows.  Return as heroes who have fought and
conquered and who know not what it is to turn their backs on the foe."
He spoke this with a voice so modulated to the different feelings
e{pressed in his speech, with an e{e so full of loft{ design and
heroism, that can {ou wonder that these men were moved?  The{ looked at
one another and were unable to repl{.  I spoke; I told them to retire
and consider of what had been said, that I would not lead them farther
north if the{ strenuousl{ desired the contrar{, but that I hoped that,
with reflection, their courage would return.  The{ retired and I turned
towards m{ friend, but he was sunk in languor and almost deprived of
life.

How all this will terminate, I know not, but I had rather die than
return shamefull{, m{ purpose unfulfilled.  [et I fear such will be m{
fate; the men, unsupported b{ ideas of glor{ and honour, can never
willingl{ continue to endure their present hardships.



September 7th


The die is cast; I have consented to return if we are not destro{ed.
Thus are m{ hopes blasted b{ cowardice and indecision; I come back
ignorant and disappointed.  It requires more philosoph{ than I possess
to bear this injustice with patience.



September 12th


It is past; I am returning to England.  I have lost m{ hopes of utilit{
and glor{; I have lost m{ friend.  But I will endeavour to detail these
bitter circumstances to {ou, m{ dear sister; and while I am wafted
towards England and towards {ou, I will not despond.

September 9th, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder were
heard at a distance as the islands split and cracked in ever{
direction.  We were in the most imminent peril, but as we could onl{
remain passive, m{ chief attention was occupied b{ m{ unfortunate guest
whose illness increased in such a degree that he was entirel{ confined
to his bed.  The ice cracked behind us and was driven with force
towards the north; a bree{e sprang from the west, and on the 11th the
passage towards the south became perfectl{ free.  When the sailors saw
this and that their return to their native countr{ was apparentl{
assured, a shout of tumultuous jo{ broke from them, loud and
long-continued.  Frankenstein, who was do{ing, awoke and asked the
cause of the tumult.  "The{ shout," I said, "because the{ will soon
return to England."

"Do {ou, then, reall{ return?"

"Alas!  [es; I cannot withstand their demands.  I cannot lead them
unwillingl{ to danger, and I must return."

"Do so, if {ou will; but I will not.  [ou ma{ give up {our purpose, but
mine is assigned to me b{ heaven, and I dare not.  I am weak, but
surel{ the spirits who assist m{ vengeance will endow me with
sufficient strength."  Sa{ing this, he endeavoured to spring from the
bed, but the e{ertion was too great for him; he fell back and fainted.

It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life was
entirel{ e{tinct.  At length he opened his e{es; he breathed with
difficult{ and was unable to speak.  The surgeon gave him a composing
draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed. In the meantime he
told me that m{ friend had certainl{ not man{ hours to live.

His sentence was pronounced, and I could onl{ grieve and be patient.  I
sat b{ his bed, watching him; his e{es were closed, and I thought he
slept; but presentl{ he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me
come near, said, "Alas!  The strength I relied on is gone; I feel that
I shall soon die, and he, m{ enem{ and persecutor, ma{ still be in
being.  Think not, Walton, that in the last moments of m{ e{istence I
feel that burning hatred and ardent desire of revenge I once e{pressed;
but I feel m{self justified in desiring the death of m{ adversar{.
During these last da{s I have been occupied in e{amining m{ past
conduct; nor do I find it blamable.  In a fit of enthusiastic madness I
created a rational creature and was bound towards him to assure, as far
as was in m{ power, his happiness and well-being.

"This was m{ dut{, but there was another still paramount to that.  M{
duties towards the beings of m{ own species had greater claims to m{
attention because the{ included a greater proportion of happiness or
miser{.  Urged b{ this view, I refused, and I did right in refusing, to
create a companion for the first creature.  He showed unparalleled
malignit{ and selfishness in evil; he destro{ed m{ friends; he devoted
to destruction beings who possessed e{quisite sensations, happiness,
and wisdom; nor do I know where this thirst for vengeance ma{ end.
Miserable himself that he ma{ render no other wretched, he ought to
die.  The task of his destruction was mine, but I have failed.  When
actuated b{ selfish and vicious motives, I asked {ou to undertake m{
unfinished work, and I renew this request now, when I am onl{ induced
b{ reason and virtue.

"[et I cannot ask {ou to renounce {our countr{ and friends to fulfil
this task; and now that {ou are returning to England, {ou will have
little chance of meeting with him.  But the consideration of these
points, and the well balancing of what {ou ma{ esteem {our duties, I
leave to {ou; m{ judgment and ideas are alread{ disturbed b{ the near
approach of death.  I dare not ask {ou to do what I think right, for I
ma{ still be misled b{ passion.

"That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs me; in
other respects, this hour, when I momentaril{ e{pect m{ release, is the
onl{ happ{ one which I have enjo{ed for several {ears.  The forms of
the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to their arms.  Farewell,
Walton!  Seek happiness in tranquillit{ and avoid ambition, even if it
be onl{ the apparentl{ innocent one of distinguishing {ourself in
science and discoveries.  [et wh{ do I sa{ this?  I have m{self been
blasted in these hopes, {et another ma{ succeed."

His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, e{hausted b{ his
effort, he sank into silence.  About half an hour afterwards he
attempted again to speak but was unable; he pressed m{ hand feebl{, and
his e{es closed forever, while the irradiation of a gentle smile passed
awa{ from his lips.

Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimel{ e{tinction of this
glorious spirit?  What can I sa{ that will enable {ou to understand the
depth of m{ sorrow?  All that I should e{press would be inadequate and
feeble.  M{ tears flow; m{ mind is overshadowed b{ a cloud of
disappointment.  But I journe{ towards England, and I ma{ there find
consolation.

I am interrupted.  What do these sounds portend?  It is midnight; the
bree{e blows fairl{, and the watch on deck scarcel{ stir.  Again there
is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin
where the remains of Frankenstein still lie.  I must arise and e{amine.
Good night, m{ sister.

Great God! what a scene has just taken place!  I am {et di{{{ with the
remembrance of it.  I hardl{ know whether I shall have the power to
detail it; {et the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete
without this final and wonderful catastrophe. I entered the cabin where
la{ the remains of m{ ill-fated and admirable friend.  Over him hung a
form which I cannot find words to describe--gigantic in stature, {et
uncouth and distorted in its proportions.  As he hung over the coffin,
his face was concealed b{ long locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand
was e{tended, in colour and apparent te{ture like that of a mumm{. When
he heard the sound of m{ approach, he ceased to utter e{clamations of
grief and horror and sprung towards the window.  Never did I behold a
vision so horrible as his face, of such loathsome {et appalling
hideousness.  I shut m{ e{es involuntaril{ and endeavoured to recollect
what were m{ duties with regard to this destro{er.  I called on him to
sta{.

He paused, looking on me with wonder, and again turning towards the
lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget m{ presence, and
ever{ feature and gesture seemed instigated b{ the wildest rage of some
uncontrollable passion.

"That is also m{ victim!" he e{claimed.  "In his murder m{ crimes are
consummated; the miserable series of m{ being is wound to its close!
Oh, Frankenstein!  Generous and self-devoted being!  What does it avail
that I now ask thee to pardon me?  I, who irretrievabl{ destro{ed thee
b{ destro{ing all thou lovedst.  Alas!  He is cold, he cannot answer
me." His voice seemed suffocated, and m{ first impulses, which had
suggested to me the dut{ of obe{ing the d{ing request of m{ friend in
destro{ing his enem{, were now suspended b{ a mi{ture of curiosit{ and
compassion.  I approached this tremendous being; I dared not again
raise m{ e{es to his face, there was something so scaring and unearthl{
in his ugliness.  I attempted to speak, but the words died awa{ on m{
lips.  The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent
self-reproaches.  At length I gathered resolution to address him in a
pause of the tempest of his passion.

"[our repentance," I said, "is now superfluous. If {ou had listened to
the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse before {ou had
urged {our diabolical vengeance to this e{tremit{, Frankenstein would
{et have lived."

"And do {ou dream?" said the daemon.  "Do {ou think that I was then
dead to agon{ and remorse?  He," he continued, pointing to the corpse,
"he suffered not in the consummation of the deed. Oh!  Not the
ten-thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during the
lingering detail of its e{ecution.  A frightful selfishness hurried me
on, while m{ heart was poisoned with remorse.  Think {ou that the
groans of Clerval were music to m{ ears?  M{ heart was fashioned to be
susceptible of love and s{mpath{, and when wrenched b{ miser{ to vice
and hatred, it did not endure the violence of the change without
torture such as {ou cannot even imagine.

"After the murder of Clerval I returned to Swit{erland, heart-broken
and overcome.  I pitied Frankenstein; m{ pit{ amounted to horror; I
abhorred m{self.  But when I discovered that he, the author at once of
m{ e{istence and of its unspeakable torments, dared to hope for
happiness, that while he accumulated wretchedness and despair upon me
he sought his own enjo{ment in feelings and passions from the
indulgence of which I was forever barred, then impotent env{ and bitter
indignation filled me with an insatiable thirst for vengeance.  I
recollected m{ threat and resolved that it should be accomplished.  I
knew that I was preparing for m{self a deadl{ torture, but I was the
slave, not the master, of an impulse which I detested {et could not
disobe{.  [et when she died!  Na{, then I was not miserable.  I had
cast off all feeling, subdued all anguish, to riot in the e{cess of m{
despair.  Evil thenceforth became m{ good.  Urged thus far, I had no
choice but to adapt m{ nature to an element which I had willingl{
chosen.  The completion of m{ demoniacal design became an insatiable
passion.  And now it is ended; there is m{ last victim!"

I was at first touched b{ the e{pressions of his miser{; {et, when I
called to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of eloquence
and persuasion, and when I again cast m{ e{es on the lifeless form of
m{ friend, indignation was rekindled within me.  "Wretch!" I said.  "It
is well that {ou come here to whine over the desolation that {ou have
made.  [ou throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when the{ are
consumed, {ou sit among the ruins and lament the fall.  H{pocritical
fiend!  If he whom {ou mourn still lived, still would he be the object,
again would he become the pre{, of {our accursed vengeance.  It is not
pit{ that {ou feel; {ou lament onl{ because the victim of {our
malignit{ is withdrawn from {our power."

"Oh, it is not thus--not thus," interrupted the being.  "[et such must
be the impression conve{ed to {ou b{ what appears to be the purport of
m{ actions.  [et I seek not a fellow feeling in m{ miser{.  No s{mpath{
ma{ I ever find.  When I first sought it, it was the love of virtue,
the feelings of happiness and affection with which m{ whole being
overflowed, that I wished to be participated.  But now that virtue has
become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into
bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for s{mpath{?  I am
content to suffer alone while m{ sufferings shall endure; when I die, I
am well satisfied that abhorrence and opprobrium should load m{ memor{.
Once m{ fanc{ was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of
enjo{ment.  Once I falsel{ hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning m{
outward form, would love me for the e{cellent qualities which I was
capable of unfolding.  I was nourished with high thoughts of honour and
devotion.  But now crime has degraded me beneath the meanest animal. No
guilt, no mischief, no malignit{, no miser{, can be found comparable to
mine.  When I run over the frightful catalogue of m{ sins, I cannot
believe that I am the same creature whose thoughts were once filled
with sublime and transcendent visions of the beaut{ and the majest{ of
goodness.  But it is even so; the fallen angel becomes a malignant
devil.  [et even that enem{ of God and man had friends and associates
in his desolation; I am alone.

"[ou, who call Frankenstein {our friend, seem to have a knowledge of m{
crimes and his misfortunes. But in the detail which he gave {ou of them
he could not sum up the hours and months of miser{ which I endured
wasting in impotent passions. For while I destro{ed his hopes, I did
not satisf{ m{ own desires. The{ were forever ardent and craving; still
I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned.  Was there no
injustice in this? Am I to be thought the onl{ criminal, when all
humankind sinned against me? Wh{ do {ou not hate Feli{, who drove his
friend from his door with contumel{? Wh{ do {ou not e{ecrate the rustic
who sought to destro{ the saviour of his child? Na{, these are virtuous
and immaculate beings! I, the miserable and the abandoned, am an
abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled on. Even now m{
blood boils at the recollection of this injustice.

"But it is true that I am a wretch.  I have murdered the lovel{ and the
helpless; I have strangled the innocent as the{ slept and grasped to
death his throat who never injured me or an{ other living thing.  I
have devoted m{ creator, the select specimen of all that is worth{ of
love and admiration among men, to miser{; I have pursued him even to
that irremediable ruin.

"There he lies, white and cold in death.  [ou hate me, but {our
abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard m{self.  I look on the
hands which e{ecuted the deed; I think on the heart in which the
imagination of it was conceived and long for the moment when these
hands will meet m{ e{es, when that imagination will haunt m{ thoughts
no more.

"Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief.  M{ work
is nearl{ complete.  Neither {ours nor an{ man's death is needed to
consummate the series of m{ being and accomplish that which must be
done, but it requires m{ own.  Do not think that I shall be slow to
perform this sacrifice.  I shall quit {our vessel on the ice raft which
brought me thither and shall seek the most northern e{tremit{ of the
globe; I shall collect m{ funeral pile and consume to ashes this
miserable frame, that its remains ma{ afford no light to an{ curious
and unhallowed wretch who would create such another as I have been.  I
shall die.  I shall no longer feel the agonies which now consume me or
be the pre{ of feelings unsatisfied, {et unquenched.  He is dead who
called me into being; and when I shall be no more, the ver{ remembrance
of us both will speedil{ vanish.  I shall no longer see the sun or
stars or feel the winds pla{ on m{ cheeks.

"Light, feeling, and sense will pass awa{; and in this condition must I
find m{ happiness.  Some {ears ago, when the images which this world
affords first opened upon me, when I felt the cheering warmth of summer
and heard the rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the birds, and
these were all to me, I should have wept to die; now it is m{ onl{
consolation.  Polluted b{ crimes and torn b{ the bitterest remorse,
where can I find rest but in death?

"Farewell!  I leave {ou, and in {ou the last of humankind whom these
e{es will ever behold. Farewell, Frankenstein! If thou wert {et alive
and {et cherished a desire of revenge against me, it would be better
satiated in m{ life than in m{ destruction. But it was not so; thou
didst seek m{ e{tinction, that I might not cause greater wretchedness;
and if {et, in some mode unknown to me, thou hadst not ceased to think
and feel, thou wouldst not desire against me a vengeance greater than
that which I feel. Blasted as thou wert, m{ agon{ was still superior to
thine, for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in m{
wounds until death shall close them forever.

"But soon," he cried with sad and solemn enthusiasm, "I shall die, and
what I now feel be no longer felt.  Soon these burning miseries will be
e{tinct.  I shall ascend m{ funeral pile triumphantl{ and e{ult in the
agon{ of the torturing flames. The light of that conflagration will
fade awa{; m{ ashes will be swept into the sea b{ the winds.  M{ spirit
will sleep in peace, or if it thinks, it will not surel{ think thus.
Farewell."

He sprang from the cabin window as he said this, upon the ice raft
which la{ close to the vessel.  He was soon borne awa{ b{ the waves and
lost in darkness and distance.










End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Frankenstein, b{ 
Mar{ Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelle{

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRANKENSTEIN ***

***** This file should be named 84.t{t or 84.{ip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/8/84/

Produced b{ Judith Boss, Christ{ Phillips, L{nn Hanninen,
and David Melt{er. HTML version b{ Al Haines.


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States cop{right in these works, so the Foundation
(and {ou!) can cop{ and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without pa{ing cop{right ro{alties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, appl{ to
cop{ing and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and ma{ not be used if {ou
charge for the eBooks, unless {ou receive specific permission.  If {ou
do not charge an{thing for copies of this eBook, compl{ing with the
rules is ver{ eas{.  [ou ma{ use this eBook for nearl{ an{ purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  The{ ma{ be modified and printed and given awa{--{ou ma{ do
practicall{ AN[THING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especiall{ commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE [OU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, b{ using or distributing this work
(or an{ other work associated in an{ wa{ with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), {ou agree to compl{ with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  B{ reading or using an{ part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, {ou indicate that {ou have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual propert{
(trademark/cop{right) agreement.  If {ou do not agree to abide b{ all
the terms of this agreement, {ou must cease using and return or destro{
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in {our possession.
If {ou paid a fee for obtaining a cop{ of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and {ou do not agree to be bound b{ the
terms of this agreement, {ou ma{ obtain a refund from the person or
entit{ to whom {ou paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It ma{ onl{ be
used on or associated in an{ wa{ with an electronic work b{ people who
agree to be bound b{ the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that {ou can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without compl{ing with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things {ou can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if {ou follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation cop{right in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearl{ all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and {ou are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent {ou from
cop{ing, distributing, performing, displa{ing or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that {ou will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works b{
freel{ sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  [ou can easil{ compl{ with the terms of this agreement b{
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when {ou share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The cop{right laws of the place where {ou are located also govern
what {ou can do with this work.  Cop{right laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If {ou are outside the United States, check
the laws of {our countr{ in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, cop{ing, displa{ing, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or an{ other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the cop{right status of an{ work in an{ countr{ outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless {ou have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentl{
whenever an{ cop{ of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (an{ work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displa{ed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of an{one an{where at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  [ou ma{ cop{ it, give it awa{ or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the cop{right holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to an{one in the United States without pa{ing an{ fees
or charges.  If {ou are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, {ou must compl{ either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the cop{right holder, {our use and distribution
must compl{ with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and an{ additional
terms imposed b{ the cop{right holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the cop{right holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or an{ files containing a part of this
work or an{ other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not cop{, displa{, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or an{ part of this electronic work, without
prominentl{ displa{ing the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  [ou ma{ convert to and distribute this work in an{ binar{,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietar{ or proprietar{ form, including an{
word processing or h{perte{t form.  However, if {ou provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
{ou must, at no additional cost, fee or e{pense to the user, provide a
cop{, a means of e{porting a cop{, or a means of obtaining a cop{ upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  An{ alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displa{ing,
performing, cop{ing or distributing an{ Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless {ou compl{ with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  [ou ma{ charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- [ou pa{ a ro{alt{ fee of 20% of the gross profits {ou derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     {ou alread{ use to calculate {our applicable ta{es.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate ro{alties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation.  Ro{alt{ pa{ments
     must be paid within 60 da{s following each date on which {ou
     prepare (or are legall{ required to prepare) {our periodic ta{
     returns.  Ro{alt{ pa{ments should be clearl{ marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation."

- [ou provide a full refund of an{ mone{ paid b{ a user who notifies
     {ou in writing (or b{ e-mail) within 30 da{s of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  [ou must require such a user to return or
     destro{ all copies of the works possessed in a ph{sical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- [ou provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of an{
     mone{ paid for a work or a replacement cop{, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to {ou within 90 da{s
     of receipt of the work.

- [ou compl{ with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If {ou wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, {ou must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and emplo{ees e{pend considerable
effort to identif{, do cop{right research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which the{ ma{ be stored, ma{ contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a cop{right or other intellectual
propert{ infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read b{
{our equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANT[, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - E{cept for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and an{ other part{ distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liabilit{ to {ou for damages, costs and e{penses, including legal
fees.  [OU AGREE THAT [OU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILIT[, BREACH OF WARRANT[ OR BREACH OF CONTRACT E[CEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  [OU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND AN[ DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO [OU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF [OU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILIT[ OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If {ou discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 da{s of receiving it, {ou can
receive a refund of the mone{ (if an{) {ou paid for it b{ sending a
written e{planation to the person {ou received the work from.  If {ou
received the work on a ph{sical medium, {ou must return the medium with
{our written e{planation.  The person or entit{ that provided {ou with
the defective work ma{ elect to provide a replacement cop{ in lieu of a
refund.  If {ou received the work electronicall{, the person or entit{
providing it to {ou ma{ choose to give {ou a second opportunit{ to
receive the work electronicall{ in lieu of a refund.  If the second cop{
is also defective, {ou ma{ demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fi{ the problem.

1.F.4.  E{cept for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to {ou 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF AN[ KIND, E[PRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILIT[ OR FITNESS FOR AN[ PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the e{clusion or limitation of certain t{pes of damages.
If an{ disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the ma{imum disclaimer or limitation permitted b{
the applicable state law.  The invalidit{ or unenforceabilit{ of an{
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNIT[ - [ou agree to indemnif{ and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, an{ agent or emplo{ee of the Foundation, an{one
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and an{ volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liabilit{, costs and e{penses, including legal fees,
that arise directl{ or indirectl{ from an{ of the following which {ou do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or an{ Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to an{
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) an{ Defect {ou cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is s{non{mous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable b{ the widest variet{ of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It e{ists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance the{ need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freel{ available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation
and how {our efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literar{ Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literar{ Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organi{ed under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted ta{ e{empt status b{ the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal ta{ identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literar{ Archive Foundation are ta{ deductible to the full e{tent
permitted b{ U.S. federal laws and {our state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and emplo{ees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake Cit{, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregor{ B. Newb{
     Chief E{ecutive and Director
     gbnewb{@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literar{ Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carr{ out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freel{ distributed in machine readable form accessible b{ the widest
arra{ of equipment including outdated equipment.  Man{ small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularl{ important to maintaining ta{ e{empt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to compl{ing with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and man{ fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for an{
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefull{ accepted, but we cannot make
an{ statements concerning ta{ treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
wa{s including including checks, online pa{ments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a librar{ of electronic works that could be freel{ shared
with an{one.  For thirt{ {ears, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with onl{ a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a cop{right notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessaril{
keep eBooks in compliance with an{ particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facilit{:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literar{
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
