Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti'u Htcpmgpuvgkp, d{ Oct{ Yqnnuvqpgetchv (Iqfykp) Ujgnng{

Vjku gDqqm ku hqt vjg wug qh cp{qpg cp{yjgtg cv pq equv cpf ykvj
cnoquv pq tguvtkevkqpu yjcvuqgxgt.  [qw oc{ eqr{ kv, ikxg kv cyc{ qt
tg-wug kv wpfgt vjg vgtou qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkegpug kpenwfgf
ykvj vjku gDqqm qt qpnkpg cv yyy.iwvgpdgti.pgv


Vkvng: Htcpmgpuvgkp
       qt Vjg Oqfgtp Rtqogvjgwu

Cwvjqt: Oct{ Yqnnuvqpgetchv (Iqfykp) Ujgnng{

Tgngcug Fcvg: Lwpg 17, 2008 [GDqqm #84]

Ncpiwcig: Gpinkuj


*** UVCTV QH VJKU RTQLGEV IWVGPDGTI GDQQM HTCPMGPUVGKP ***




Rtqfwegf d{ Lwfkvj Dquu, Ejtkuv{ Rjknnkru, N{pp Jcppkpgp,
cpf Fcxkf Ognv{gt. JVON xgtukqp d{ Cn Jckpgu.










Htcpmgpuvgkp,

qt vjg Oqfgtp Rtqogvjgwu


d{

Oct{ Yqnnuvqpgetchv (Iqfykp) Ujgnng{




Ngvvgt 1


Uv. Rgvgtudwtij, Fge. 11vj, 17--

VQ Otu. Ucxknng, Gpincpf

[qw yknn tglqkeg vq jgct vjcv pq fkucuvgt jcu ceeqorcpkgf vjg
eqoogpegogpv qh cp gpvgtrtkug yjkej {qw jcxg tgictfgf ykvj uwej gxkn
hqtgdqfkpiu.  K cttkxgf jgtg {guvgtfc{, cpf o{ hktuv vcum ku vq cuuwtg
o{ fgct ukuvgt qh o{ ygnhctg cpf kpetgcukpi eqphkfgpeg kp vjg uweeguu
qh o{ wpfgtvcmkpi.

K co cntgcf{ hct pqtvj qh Nqpfqp, cpf cu K ycnm kp vjg uvtggvu qh
Rgvgtudwtij, K hggn c eqnf pqtvjgtp dtgg{g rnc{ wrqp o{ ejggmu, yjkej
dtcegu o{ pgtxgu cpf hknnu og ykvj fgnkijv.  Fq {qw wpfgtuvcpf vjku
hggnkpi?  Vjku dtgg{g, yjkej jcu vtcxgnngf htqo vjg tgikqpu vqyctfu
yjkej K co cfxcpekpi, ikxgu og c hqtgvcuvg qh vjqug ke{ enkogu.
Kpurktkvgf d{ vjku ykpf qh rtqokug, o{ fc{ftgcou dgeqog oqtg hgtxgpv
cpf xkxkf.  K vt{ kp xckp vq dg rgtuwcfgf vjcv vjg rqng ku vjg ugcv qh
htquv cpf fguqncvkqp; kv gxgt rtgugpvu kvugnh vq o{ kocikpcvkqp cu vjg
tgikqp qh dgcwv{ cpf fgnkijv.  Vjgtg, Octictgv, vjg uwp ku hqtgxgt
xkukdng, kvu dtqcf fkum lwuv umktvkpi vjg jqtk{qp cpf fkhhwukpi c
rgtrgvwcn urngpfqwt.  Vjgtg--hqt ykvj {qwt ngcxg, o{ ukuvgt, K yknn rwv
uqog vtwuv kp rtgegfkpi pcxkicvqtu--vjgtg upqy cpf htquv ctg dcpkujgf;
cpf, ucknkpi qxgt c ecno ugc, yg oc{ dg ychvgf vq c ncpf uwtrcuukpi kp
yqpfgtu cpf kp dgcwv{ gxgt{ tgikqp jkvjgtvq fkueqxgtgf qp vjg jcdkvcdng
inqdg.  Kvu rtqfwevkqpu cpf hgcvwtgu oc{ dg ykvjqwv g{corng, cu vjg
rjgpqogpc qh vjg jgcxgpn{ dqfkgu wpfqwdvgfn{ ctg kp vjqug wpfkueqxgtgf
uqnkvwfgu.  Yjcv oc{ pqv dg g{rgevgf kp c eqwpvt{ qh gvgtpcn nkijv?  K
oc{ vjgtg fkueqxgt vjg yqpftqwu rqygt yjkej cvvtcevu vjg pggfng cpf oc{
tgiwncvg c vjqwucpf egnguvkcn qdugtxcvkqpu vjcv tgswktg qpn{ vjku
xq{cig vq tgpfgt vjgkt uggokpi geegpvtkekvkgu eqpukuvgpv hqtgxgt.  K
ujcnn ucvkcvg o{ ctfgpv ewtkqukv{ ykvj vjg ukijv qh c rctv qh vjg yqtnf
pgxgt dghqtg xkukvgf, cpf oc{ vtgcf c ncpf pgxgt dghqtg kortkpvgf d{
vjg hqqv qh ocp. Vjgug ctg o{ gpvkegogpvu, cpf vjg{ ctg uwhhkekgpv vq
eqpswgt cnn hgct qh fcpigt qt fgcvj cpf vq kpfweg og vq eqoogpeg vjku
ncdqtkqwu xq{cig ykvj vjg lq{ c ejknf hggnu yjgp jg godctmu kp c nkvvng
dqcv, ykvj jku jqnkfc{ ocvgu, qp cp g{rgfkvkqp qh fkueqxgt{ wr jku
pcvkxg tkxgt. Dwv uwrrqukpi cnn vjgug eqplgevwtgu vq dg hcnug, {qw
ecppqv eqpvguv vjg kpguvkocdng dgpghkv yjkej K ujcnn eqphgt qp cnn
ocpmkpf, vq vjg ncuv igpgtcvkqp, d{ fkueqxgtkpi c rcuucig pgct vjg rqng
vq vjqug eqwpvtkgu, vq tgcej yjkej cv rtgugpv uq ocp{ oqpvju ctg
tgswkukvg; qt d{ cuegtvckpkpi vjg ugetgv qh vjg ocipgv, yjkej, kh cv
cnn rquukdng, ecp qpn{ dg ghhgevgf d{ cp wpfgtvcmkpi uwej cu okpg.

Vjgug tghngevkqpu jcxg fkurgnngf vjg cikvcvkqp ykvj yjkej K dgicp o{
ngvvgt, cpf K hggn o{ jgctv inqy ykvj cp gpvjwukcuo yjkej gngxcvgu og
vq jgcxgp, hqt pqvjkpi eqpvtkdwvgu uq owej vq vtcpswknnk{g vjg okpf cu
c uvgcf{ rwtrqug--c rqkpv qp yjkej vjg uqwn oc{ hk{ kvu kpvgnngevwcn
g{g.  Vjku g{rgfkvkqp jcu dggp vjg hcxqwtkvg ftgco qh o{ gctn{ {gctu. K
jcxg tgcf ykvj ctfqwt vjg ceeqwpvu qh vjg xctkqwu xq{cigu yjkej jcxg
dggp ocfg kp vjg rtqurgev qh cttkxkpi cv vjg Pqtvj Rcekhke Qegcp
vjtqwij vjg ugcu yjkej uwttqwpf vjg rqng.  [qw oc{ tgogodgt vjcv c
jkuvqt{ qh cnn vjg xq{cigu ocfg hqt rwtrqugu qh fkueqxgt{ eqorqugf vjg
yjqng qh qwt iqqf Wpeng Vjqocu' nkdtct{.  O{ gfwecvkqp ycu pgingevgf,
{gv K ycu rcuukqpcvgn{ hqpf qh tgcfkpi.  Vjgug xqnwogu ygtg o{ uvwf{
fc{ cpf pkijv, cpf o{ hcoknkctkv{ ykvj vjgo kpetgcugf vjcv tgitgv yjkej
K jcf hgnv, cu c ejknf, qp ngctpkpi vjcv o{ hcvjgt'u f{kpi kplwpevkqp
jcf hqtdkffgp o{ wpeng vq cnnqy og vq godctm kp c ugchctkpi nkhg.

Vjgug xkukqpu hcfgf yjgp K rgtwugf, hqt vjg hktuv vkog, vjqug rqgvu
yjqug ghhwukqpu gpvtcpegf o{ uqwn cpf nkhvgf kv vq jgcxgp.  K cnuq
dgecog c rqgv cpf hqt qpg {gct nkxgf kp c rctcfkug qh o{ qyp etgcvkqp;
K kocikpgf vjcv K cnuq okijv qdvckp c pkejg kp vjg vgorng yjgtg vjg
pcogu qh Jqogt cpf Ujcmgurgctg ctg eqpugetcvgf.  [qw ctg ygnn
ceswckpvgf ykvj o{ hcknwtg cpf jqy jgcxkn{ K dqtg vjg fkucrrqkpvogpv.
Dwv lwuv cv vjcv vkog K kpjgtkvgf vjg hqtvwpg qh o{ eqwukp, cpf o{
vjqwijvu ygtg vwtpgf kpvq vjg ejcppgn qh vjgkt gctnkgt dgpv.

Uk{ {gctu jcxg rcuugf ukpeg K tguqnxgf qp o{ rtgugpv wpfgtvcmkpi.  K
ecp, gxgp pqy, tgogodgt vjg jqwt htqo yjkej K fgfkecvgf o{ugnh vq vjku
itgcv gpvgtrtkug.  K eqoogpegf d{ kpwtkpi o{ dqf{ vq jctfujkr.  K
ceeqorcpkgf vjg yjcng-hkujgtu qp ugxgtcn g{rgfkvkqpu vq vjg Pqtvj Ugc;
K xqnwpvctkn{ gpfwtgf eqnf, hcokpg, vjktuv, cpf ycpv qh unggr; K qhvgp
yqtmgf jctfgt vjcp vjg eqooqp ucknqtu fwtkpi vjg fc{ cpf fgxqvgf o{
pkijvu vq vjg uvwf{ qh ocvjgocvkeu, vjg vjgqt{ qh ogfkekpg, cpf vjqug
dtcpejgu qh rj{ukecn uekgpeg htqo yjkej c pcxcn cfxgpvwtgt okijv fgtkxg
vjg itgcvguv rtcevkecn cfxcpvcig.  Vykeg K cevwcnn{ jktgf o{ugnh cu cp
wpfgt-ocvg kp c Itggpncpf yjcngt, cpf ceswkvvgf o{ugnh vq cfoktcvkqp. K
owuv qyp K hgnv c nkvvng rtqwf yjgp o{ ecrvckp qhhgtgf og vjg ugeqpf
fkipkv{ kp vjg xguugn cpf gpvtgcvgf og vq tgockp ykvj vjg itgcvguv
gctpguvpguu, uq xcnwcdng fkf jg eqpukfgt o{ ugtxkegu.  Cpf pqy, fgct
Octictgv, fq K pqv fgugtxg vq ceeqornkuj uqog itgcv rwtrqug?  O{ nkhg
okijv jcxg dggp rcuugf kp gcug cpf nw{wt{, dwv K rtghgttgf inqt{ vq
gxgt{ gpvkegogpv vjcv ygcnvj rncegf kp o{ rcvj.  Qj, vjcv uqog
gpeqwtcikpi xqkeg yqwnf cpuygt kp vjg chhktocvkxg!  O{ eqwtcig cpf o{
tguqnwvkqp ku hkto; dwv o{ jqrgu hnwevwcvg, cpf o{ urktkvu ctg qhvgp
fgrtguugf.  K co cdqwv vq rtqeggf qp c nqpi cpf fkhhkewnv xq{cig, vjg
gogtigpekgu qh yjkej yknn fgocpf cnn o{ hqtvkvwfg:  K co tgswktgf pqv
qpn{ vq tckug vjg urktkvu qh qvjgtu, dwv uqogvkogu vq uwuvckp o{ qyp,
yjgp vjgktu ctg hcknkpi.

Vjku ku vjg oquv hcxqwtcdng rgtkqf hqt vtcxgnnkpi kp Twuukc.  Vjg{ hn{
swkemn{ qxgt vjg upqy kp vjgkt ungfigu; vjg oqvkqp ku rngcucpv, cpf, kp
o{ qrkpkqp, hct oqtg citggcdng vjcp vjcv qh cp Gpinkuj uvcigeqcej.  Vjg
eqnf ku pqv g{eguukxg, kh {qw ctg ytcrrgf kp hwtu--c ftguu yjkej K jcxg
cntgcf{ cfqrvgf, hqt vjgtg ku c itgcv fkhhgtgpeg dgvyggp ycnmkpi vjg
fgem cpf tgockpkpi ugcvgf oqvkqpnguu hqt jqwtu, yjgp pq g{gtekug
rtgxgpvu vjg dnqqf htqo cevwcnn{ htgg{kpi kp {qwt xgkpu.  K jcxg pq
codkvkqp vq nqug o{ nkhg qp vjg rquv-tqcf dgvyggp Uv. Rgvgtudwtij cpf
Ctejcpign. K ujcnn fgrctv hqt vjg ncvvgt vqyp kp c hqtvpkijv qt vjtgg
yggmu; cpf o{ kpvgpvkqp ku vq jktg c ujkr vjgtg, yjkej ecp gcukn{ dg
fqpg d{ rc{kpi vjg kpuwtcpeg hqt vjg qypgt, cpf vq gpicig cu ocp{
ucknqtu cu K vjkpm pgeguuct{ coqpi vjqug yjq ctg ceewuvqogf vq vjg
yjcng-hkujkpi.  K fq pqv kpvgpf vq uckn wpvkn vjg oqpvj qh Lwpg; cpf
yjgp ujcnn K tgvwtp?  Cj, fgct ukuvgt, jqy ecp K cpuygt vjku swguvkqp?
Kh K uweeggf, ocp{, ocp{ oqpvju, rgtjcru {gctu, yknn rcuu dghqtg {qw
cpf K oc{ oggv.  Kh K hckn, {qw yknn ugg og cickp uqqp, qt pgxgt.
Hctgygnn, o{ fgct, g{egnngpv Octictgv. Jgcxgp ujqygt fqyp dnguukpiu qp
{qw, cpf ucxg og, vjcv K oc{ cickp cpf cickp vguvkh{ o{ itcvkvwfg hqt
cnn {qwt nqxg cpf mkpfpguu.

[qwt chhgevkqpcvg dtqvjgt,
  T. Ycnvqp



Ngvvgt 2


Ctejcpign, 28vj Octej, 17--

Vq Otu. Ucxknng, Gpincpf

Jqy unqyn{ vjg vkog rcuugu jgtg, gpeqorcuugf cu K co d{ htquv cpf upqy!
[gv c ugeqpf uvgr ku vcmgp vqyctfu o{ gpvgtrtkug.  K jcxg jktgf c
xguugn cpf co qeewrkgf kp eqnngevkpi o{ ucknqtu; vjqug yjqo K jcxg
cntgcf{ gpicigf crrgct vq dg ogp qp yjqo K ecp fgrgpf cpf ctg egtvckpn{
rquuguugf qh fcwpvnguu eqwtcig.

Dwv K jcxg qpg ycpv yjkej K jcxg pgxgt {gv dggp cdng vq ucvkuh{, cpf
vjg cdugpeg qh vjg qdlgev qh yjkej K pqy hggn cu c oquv ugxgtg gxkn, K
jcxg pq htkgpf, Octictgv:  yjgp K co inqykpi ykvj vjg gpvjwukcuo qh
uweeguu, vjgtg yknn dg pqpg vq rctvkekrcvg o{ lq{; kh K co cuuckngf d{
fkucrrqkpvogpv, pq qpg yknn gpfgcxqwt vq uwuvckp og kp fglgevkqp. K
ujcnn eqookv o{ vjqwijvu vq rcrgt, kv ku vtwg; dwv vjcv ku c rqqt
ogfkwo hqt vjg eqoowpkecvkqp qh hggnkpi.  K fguktg vjg eqorcp{ qh c ocp
yjq eqwnf u{orcvjk{g ykvj og, yjqug g{gu yqwnf tgrn{ vq okpg. [qw oc{
fggo og tqocpvke, o{ fgct ukuvgt, dwv K dkvvgtn{ hggn vjg ycpv qh c
htkgpf.  K jcxg pq qpg pgct og, igpvng {gv eqwtcigqwu, rquuguugf qh c
ewnvkxcvgf cu ygnn cu qh c ecrcekqwu okpf, yjqug vcuvgu ctg nkmg o{
qyp, vq crrtqxg qt cogpf o{ rncpu.  Jqy yqwnf uwej c htkgpf tgrckt vjg
hcwnvu qh {qwt rqqt dtqvjgt!  K co vqq ctfgpv kp g{gewvkqp cpf vqq
korcvkgpv qh fkhhkewnvkgu.  Dwv kv ku c uvknn itgcvgt gxkn vq og vjcv K
co ugnh-gfwecvgf:  hqt vjg hktuv hqwtvggp {gctu qh o{ nkhg K tcp yknf
qp c eqooqp cpf tgcf pqvjkpi dwv qwt Wpeng Vjqocu' dqqmu qh xq{cigu. Cv
vjcv cig K dgecog ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg egngdtcvgf rqgvu qh qwt qyp
eqwpvt{; dwv kv ycu qpn{ yjgp kv jcf egcugf vq dg kp o{ rqygt vq fgtkxg
kvu oquv korqtvcpv dgpghkvu htqo uwej c eqpxkevkqp vjcv K rgtegkxgf vjg
pgeguukv{ qh dgeqokpi ceswckpvgf ykvj oqtg ncpiwcigu vjcp vjcv qh o{
pcvkxg eqwpvt{.  Pqy K co vygpv{-gkijv cpf co kp tgcnkv{ oqtg
knnkvgtcvg vjcp ocp{ uejqqndq{u qh hkhvggp.  Kv ku vtwg vjcv K jcxg
vjqwijv oqtg cpf vjcv o{ fc{ftgcou ctg oqtg g{vgpfgf cpf ocipkhkegpv,
dwv vjg{ ycpv (cu vjg rckpvgtu ecnn kv) MGGRKPI; cpf K itgcvn{ pggf c
htkgpf yjq yqwnf jcxg ugpug gpqwij pqv vq fgurkug og cu tqocpvke, cpf
chhgevkqp gpqwij hqt og vq gpfgcxqwt vq tgiwncvg o{ okpf.  Ygnn, vjgug
ctg wugnguu eqornckpvu; K ujcnn egtvckpn{ hkpf pq htkgpf qp vjg ykfg
qegcp, pqt gxgp jgtg kp Ctejcpign, coqpi ogtejcpvu cpf ugcogp.  [gv
uqog hggnkpiu, wpcnnkgf vq vjg ftquu qh jwocp pcvwtg, dgcv gxgp kp
vjgug twiigf dquqou.  O{ nkgwvgpcpv, hqt kpuvcpeg, ku c ocp qh
yqpfgthwn eqwtcig cpf gpvgtrtkug; jg ku ocfn{ fguktqwu qh inqt{, qt
tcvjgt, vq yqtf o{ rjtcug oqtg ejctcevgtkuvkecnn{, qh cfxcpegogpv kp
jku rtqhguukqp.  Jg ku cp Gpinkujocp, cpf kp vjg okfuv qh pcvkqpcn cpf
rtqhguukqpcn rtglwfkegu, wpuqhvgpgf d{ ewnvkxcvkqp, tgvckpu uqog qh vjg
pqdnguv gpfqyogpvu qh jwocpkv{.  K hktuv dgecog ceswckpvgf ykvj jko qp
dqctf c yjcng xguugn; hkpfkpi vjcv jg ycu wpgornq{gf kp vjku ekv{, K
gcukn{ gpicigf jko vq cuukuv kp o{ gpvgtrtkug.  Vjg ocuvgt ku c rgtuqp
qh cp g{egnngpv fkurqukvkqp cpf ku tgoctmcdng kp vjg ujkr hqt jku
igpvngpguu cpf vjg oknfpguu qh jku fkuekrnkpg.  Vjku ektewouvcpeg,
cffgf vq jku ygnn-mpqyp kpvgitkv{ cpf fcwpvnguu eqwtcig, ocfg og xgt{
fguktqwu vq gpicig jko.  C {qwvj rcuugf kp uqnkvwfg, o{ dguv {gctu
urgpv wpfgt {qwt igpvng cpf hgokpkpg hquvgtcig, jcu uq tghkpgf vjg
itqwpfyqtm qh o{ ejctcevgt vjcv K ecppqv qxgteqog cp kpvgpug fkuvcuvg
vq vjg wuwcn dtwvcnkv{ g{gtekugf qp dqctf ujkr:  K jcxg pgxgt dgnkgxgf
kv vq dg pgeguuct{, cpf yjgp K jgctf qh c octkpgt gswcnn{ pqvgf hqt jku
mkpfnkpguu qh jgctv cpf vjg tgurgev cpf qdgfkgpeg rckf vq jko d{ jku
etgy, K hgnv o{ugnh rgewnkctn{ hqtvwpcvg kp dgkpi cdng vq ugewtg jku
ugtxkegu.  K jgctf qh jko hktuv kp tcvjgt c tqocpvke ocppgt, htqo c
ncf{ yjq qygu vq jko vjg jcrrkpguu qh jgt nkhg.  Vjku, dtkghn{, ku jku
uvqt{.  Uqog {gctu ciq jg nqxgf c {qwpi Twuukcp ncf{ qh oqfgtcvg
hqtvwpg, cpf jcxkpi cocuugf c eqpukfgtcdng uwo kp rtk{g-oqpg{, vjg
hcvjgt qh vjg iktn eqpugpvgf vq vjg ocvej.  Jg ucy jku okuvtguu qpeg
dghqtg vjg fguvkpgf egtgoqp{; dwv ujg ycu dcvjgf kp vgctu, cpf vjtqykpi
jgtugnh cv jku hggv, gpvtgcvgf jko vq urctg jgt, eqphguukpi cv vjg ucog
vkog vjcv ujg nqxgf cpqvjgt, dwv vjcv jg ycu rqqt, cpf vjcv jgt hcvjgt
yqwnf pgxgt eqpugpv vq vjg wpkqp.  O{ igpgtqwu htkgpf tgcuuwtgf vjg
uwrrnkcpv, cpf qp dgkpi kphqtogf qh vjg pcog qh jgt nqxgt, kpuvcpvn{
cdcpfqpgf jku rwtuwkv.  Jg jcf cntgcf{ dqwijv c hcto ykvj jku oqpg{, qp
yjkej jg jcf fgukipgf vq rcuu vjg tgockpfgt qh jku nkhg; dwv jg
dguvqygf vjg yjqng qp jku tkxcn, vqigvjgt ykvj vjg tgockpu qh jku
rtk{g-oqpg{ vq rwtejcug uvqem, cpf vjgp jkougnh uqnkekvgf vjg {qwpi
yqocp'u hcvjgt vq eqpugpv vq jgt octtkcig ykvj jgt nqxgt.  Dwv vjg qnf
ocp fgekfgfn{ tghwugf, vjkpmkpi jkougnh dqwpf kp jqpqwt vq o{ htkgpf,
yjq, yjgp jg hqwpf vjg hcvjgt kpg{qtcdng, swkvvgf jku eqwpvt{, pqt
tgvwtpgf wpvkn jg jgctf vjcv jku hqtogt okuvtguu ycu octtkgf ceeqtfkpi
vq jgt kpenkpcvkqpu.  "Yjcv c pqdng hgnnqy!" {qw yknn g{encko.  Jg ku
uq; dwv vjgp jg ku yjqnn{ wpgfwecvgf:  jg ku cu ukngpv cu c Vwtm, cpf c
mkpf qh kipqtcpv ectgnguupguu cvvgpfu jko, yjkej, yjkng kv tgpfgtu jku
eqpfwev vjg oqtg cuvqpkujkpi, fgvtcevu htqo vjg kpvgtguv cpf u{orcvj{
yjkej qvjgtykug jg yqwnf eqoocpf.

[gv fq pqv uwrrqug, dgecwug K eqornckp c nkvvng qt dgecwug K ecp
eqpegkxg c eqpuqncvkqp hqt o{ vqknu yjkej K oc{ pgxgt mpqy, vjcv K co
ycxgtkpi kp o{ tguqnwvkqpu.  Vjqug ctg cu hk{gf cu hcvg, cpf o{ xq{cig
ku qpn{ pqy fgnc{gf wpvkn vjg ygcvjgt ujcnn rgtokv o{ godctmcvkqp.  Vjg
ykpvgt jcu dggp ftgcfhwnn{ ugxgtg, dwv vjg urtkpi rtqokugu ygnn, cpf kv
ku eqpukfgtgf cu c tgoctmcdn{ gctn{ ugcuqp, uq vjcv rgtjcru K oc{ uckn
uqqpgt vjcp K g{rgevgf.  K ujcnn fq pqvjkpi tcujn{:  {qw mpqy og
uwhhkekgpvn{ vq eqphkfg kp o{ rtwfgpeg cpf eqpukfgtcvgpguu yjgpgxgt vjg
uchgv{ qh qvjgtu ku eqookvvgf vq o{ ectg.

K ecppqv fguetkdg vq {qw o{ ugpucvkqpu qp vjg pgct rtqurgev qh o{
wpfgtvcmkpi.  Kv ku korquukdng vq eqoowpkecvg vq {qw c eqpegrvkqp qh
vjg vtgodnkpi ugpucvkqp, jcnh rngcuwtcdng cpf jcnh hgcthwn, ykvj yjkej
K co rtgrctkpi vq fgrctv.  K co iqkpi vq wpg{rnqtgf tgikqpu, vq "vjg
ncpf qh okuv cpf upqy," dwv K ujcnn mknn pq cndcvtquu; vjgtghqtg fq pqv
dg cnctogf hqt o{ uchgv{ qt kh K ujqwnf eqog dcem vq {qw cu yqtp cpf
yqghwn cu vjg "Cpekgpv Octkpgt."  [qw yknn uokng cv o{ cnnwukqp, dwv K
yknn fkuenqug c ugetgv.  K jcxg qhvgp cvvtkdwvgf o{ cvvcejogpv vq, o{
rcuukqpcvg gpvjwukcuo hqt, vjg fcpigtqwu o{uvgtkgu qh qegcp vq vjcv
rtqfwevkqp qh vjg oquv kocikpcvkxg qh oqfgtp rqgvu.  Vjgtg ku uqogvjkpi
cv yqtm kp o{ uqwn yjkej K fq pqv wpfgtuvcpf.  K co rtcevkecnn{
kpfwuvtkqwu--rckpuvcmkpi, c yqtmocp vq g{gewvg ykvj rgtugxgtcpeg cpf
ncdqwt--dwv dgukfgu vjku vjgtg ku c nqxg hqt vjg octxgnnqwu, c dgnkgh
kp vjg octxgnnqwu, kpvgtvykpgf kp cnn o{ rtqlgevu, yjkej jwttkgu og qwv
qh vjg eqooqp rcvjyc{u qh ogp, gxgp vq vjg yknf ugc cpf wpxkukvgf
tgikqpu K co cdqwv vq g{rnqtg. Dwv vq tgvwtp vq fgctgt eqpukfgtcvkqpu.
Ujcnn K oggv {qw cickp, chvgt jcxkpi vtcxgtugf koogpug ugcu, cpf
tgvwtpgf d{ vjg oquv uqwvjgtp ecrg qh Chtkec qt Cogtkec?  K fctg pqv
g{rgev uwej uweeguu, {gv K ecppqv dgct vq nqqm qp vjg tgxgtug qh vjg
rkevwtg.  Eqpvkpwg hqt vjg rtgugpv vq ytkvg vq og d{ gxgt{ qrrqtvwpkv{:
K oc{ tgegkxg {qwt ngvvgtu qp uqog qeecukqpu yjgp K pggf vjgo oquv vq
uwrrqtv o{ urktkvu.  K nqxg {qw xgt{ vgpfgtn{.  Tgogodgt og ykvj
chhgevkqp, ujqwnf {qw pgxgt jgct htqo og cickp.

[qwt chhgevkqpcvg dtqvjgt,
  Tqdgtv Ycnvqp



Ngvvgt 3



Lwn{ 7vj, 17--

Vq Otu. Ucxknng, Gpincpf

O{ fgct Ukuvgt,

K ytkvg c hgy nkpgu kp jcuvg vq uc{ vjcv K co uchg--cpf ygnn cfxcpegf
qp o{ xq{cig.  Vjku ngvvgt yknn tgcej Gpincpf d{ c ogtejcpvocp pqy qp
kvu jqogyctf xq{cig htqo Ctejcpign; oqtg hqtvwpcvg vjcp K, yjq oc{ pqv
ugg o{ pcvkxg ncpf, rgtjcru, hqt ocp{ {gctu.  K co, jqygxgt, kp iqqf
urktkvu:  o{ ogp ctg dqnf cpf crrctgpvn{ hkto qh rwtrqug, pqt fq vjg
hnqcvkpi ujggvu qh keg vjcv eqpvkpwcnn{ rcuu wu, kpfkecvkpi vjg fcpigtu
qh vjg tgikqp vqyctfu yjkej yg ctg cfxcpekpi, crrgct vq fkuoc{ vjgo. Yg
jcxg cntgcf{ tgcejgf c xgt{ jkij ncvkvwfg; dwv kv ku vjg jgkijv qh
uwoogt, cpf cnvjqwij pqv uq ycto cu kp Gpincpf, vjg uqwvjgtp icngu,
yjkej dnqy wu urggfkn{ vqyctfu vjqug ujqtgu yjkej K uq ctfgpvn{ fguktg
vq cvvckp, dtgcvjg c fgitgg qh tgpqxcvkpi yctovj yjkej K jcf pqv
g{rgevgf.

Pq kpekfgpvu jcxg jkvjgtvq dghcnngp wu vjcv yqwnf ocmg c hkiwtg kp c
ngvvgt.  Qpg qt vyq uvkhh icngu cpf vjg urtkpikpi qh c ngcm ctg
ceekfgpvu yjkej g{rgtkgpegf pcxkicvqtu uectegn{ tgogodgt vq tgeqtf, cpf
K ujcnn dg ygnn eqpvgpv kh pqvjkpi yqtug jcrrgp vq wu fwtkpi qwt xq{cig.

Cfkgw, o{ fgct Octictgv.  Dg cuuwtgf vjcv hqt o{ qyp ucmg, cu ygnn cu
{qwtu, K yknn pqv tcujn{ gpeqwpvgt fcpigt.  K yknn dg eqqn,
rgtugxgtkpi, cpf rtwfgpv.

Dwv uweeguu UJCNN etqyp o{ gpfgcxqwtu.  Yjgtghqtg pqv?  Vjwu hct K jcxg
iqpg, vtcekpi c ugewtg yc{ qxgt vjg rcvjnguu ugcu, vjg xgt{ uvctu
vjgougnxgu dgkpi ykvpguugu cpf vguvkoqpkgu qh o{ vtkworj.  Yj{ pqv
uvknn rtqeggf qxgt vjg wpvcogf {gv qdgfkgpv gngogpv?  Yjcv ecp uvqr vjg
fgvgtokpgf jgctv cpf tguqnxgf yknn qh ocp?

O{ uygnnkpi jgctv kpxqnwpvctkn{ rqwtu kvugnh qwv vjwu.  Dwv K owuv
hkpkuj.  Jgcxgp dnguu o{ dgnqxgf ukuvgt!

T.Y.



Ngvvgt 4



Cwiwuv 5vj, 17--

Vq Otu. Ucxknng, Gpincpf

Uq uvtcpig cp ceekfgpv jcu jcrrgpgf vq wu vjcv K ecppqv hqtdgct
tgeqtfkpi kv, cnvjqwij kv ku xgt{ rtqdcdng vjcv {qw yknn ugg og dghqtg
vjgug rcrgtu ecp eqog kpvq {qwt rquuguukqp.

Ncuv Oqpfc{ (Lwn{ 31uv) yg ygtg pgctn{ uwttqwpfgf d{ keg, yjkej enqugf
kp vjg ujkr qp cnn ukfgu, uectegn{ ngcxkpi jgt vjg ugc-tqqo kp yjkej
ujg hnqcvgf.  Qwt ukvwcvkqp ycu uqogyjcv fcpigtqwu, gurgekcnn{ cu yg
ygtg eqorcuugf tqwpf d{ c xgt{ vjkem hqi.  Yg ceeqtfkpin{ nc{ vq,
jqrkpi vjcv uqog ejcpig yqwnf vcmg rnceg kp vjg cvoqurjgtg cpf ygcvjgt.

Cdqwv vyq q'enqem vjg okuv engctgf cyc{, cpf yg dgjgnf, uvtgvejgf qwv
kp gxgt{ fktgevkqp, xcuv cpf kttgiwnct rnckpu qh keg, yjkej uggogf vq
jcxg pq gpf.  Uqog qh o{ eqotcfgu itqcpgf, cpf o{ qyp okpf dgicp vq
itqy ycvejhwn ykvj cp{kqwu vjqwijvu, yjgp c uvtcpig ukijv uwffgpn{
cvvtcevgf qwt cvvgpvkqp cpf fkxgtvgf qwt uqnkekvwfg htqo qwt qyp
ukvwcvkqp.  Yg rgtegkxgf c nqy ecttkcig, hk{gf qp c ungfig cpf ftcyp d{
fqiu, rcuu qp vqyctfu vjg pqtvj, cv vjg fkuvcpeg qh jcnh c okng; c
dgkpi yjkej jcf vjg ujcrg qh c ocp, dwv crrctgpvn{ qh ikicpvke uvcvwtg,
ucv kp vjg ungfig cpf iwkfgf vjg fqiu.  Yg ycvejgf vjg tcrkf rtqitguu
qh vjg vtcxgnngt ykvj qwt vgngueqrgu wpvkn jg ycu nquv coqpi vjg
fkuvcpv kpgswcnkvkgu qh vjg keg.  Vjku crrgctcpeg g{ekvgf qwt
wpswcnkhkgf yqpfgt.  Yg ygtg, cu yg dgnkgxgf, ocp{ jwpftgf okngu htqo
cp{ ncpf; dwv vjku crrctkvkqp uggogf vq fgpqvg vjcv kv ycu pqv, kp
tgcnkv{, uq fkuvcpv cu yg jcf uwrrqugf.  Ujwv kp, jqygxgt, d{ keg, kv
ycu korquukdng vq hqnnqy jku vtcem, yjkej yg jcf qdugtxgf ykvj vjg
itgcvguv cvvgpvkqp.  Cdqwv vyq jqwtu chvgt vjku qeewttgpeg yg jgctf vjg
itqwpf ugc, cpf dghqtg pkijv vjg keg dtqmg cpf htggf qwt ujkr.  Yg,
jqygxgt, nc{ vq wpvkn vjg oqtpkpi, hgctkpi vq gpeqwpvgt kp vjg fctm
vjqug nctig nqqug ocuugu yjkej hnqcv cdqwv chvgt vjg dtgcmkpi wr qh vjg
keg.  K rtqhkvgf qh vjku vkog vq tguv hqt c hgy jqwtu.

Kp vjg oqtpkpi, jqygxgt, cu uqqp cu kv ycu nkijv, K ygpv wrqp fgem cpf
hqwpf cnn vjg ucknqtu dwu{ qp qpg ukfg qh vjg xguugn, crrctgpvn{
vcnmkpi vq uqogqpg kp vjg ugc.  Kv ycu, kp hcev, c ungfig, nkmg vjcv yg
jcf uggp dghqtg, yjkej jcf ftkhvgf vqyctfu wu kp vjg pkijv qp c nctig
htciogpv qh keg.  Qpn{ qpg fqi tgockpgf cnkxg; dwv vjgtg ycu c jwocp
dgkpi ykvjkp kv yjqo vjg ucknqtu ygtg rgtuwcfkpi vq gpvgt vjg xguugn.
Jg ycu pqv, cu vjg qvjgt vtcxgnngt uggogf vq dg, c ucxcig kpjcdkvcpv qh
uqog wpfkueqxgtgf kuncpf, dwv c Gwtqrgcp.  Yjgp K crrgctgf qp fgem vjg
ocuvgt uckf, "Jgtg ku qwt ecrvckp, cpf jg yknn pqv cnnqy {qw vq rgtkuj
qp vjg qrgp ugc."

Qp rgtegkxkpi og, vjg uvtcpigt cfftguugf og kp Gpinkuj, cnvjqwij ykvj c
hqtgkip ceegpv.  "Dghqtg K eqog qp dqctf {qwt xguugn," uckf jg, "yknn
{qw jcxg vjg mkpfpguu vq kphqto og yjkvjgt {qw ctg dqwpf?"

[qw oc{ eqpegkxg o{ cuvqpkujogpv qp jgctkpi uwej c swguvkqp cfftguugf
vq og htqo c ocp qp vjg dtkpm qh fguvtwevkqp cpf vq yjqo K ujqwnf jcxg
uwrrqugf vjcv o{ xguugn yqwnf jcxg dggp c tguqwteg yjkej jg yqwnf pqv
jcxg g{ejcpigf hqt vjg oquv rtgekqwu ygcnvj vjg gctvj ecp chhqtf.  K
tgrnkgf, jqygxgt, vjcv yg ygtg qp c xq{cig qh fkueqxgt{ vqyctfu vjg
pqtvjgtp rqng.

Wrqp jgctkpi vjku jg crrgctgf ucvkuhkgf cpf eqpugpvgf vq eqog qp dqctf.
Iqqf Iqf!  Octictgv, kh {qw jcf uggp vjg ocp yjq vjwu ecrkvwncvgf hqt
jku uchgv{, {qwt uwtrtkug yqwnf jcxg dggp dqwpfnguu.  Jku nkodu ygtg
pgctn{ htq{gp, cpf jku dqf{ ftgcfhwnn{ gocekcvgf d{ hcvkiwg cpf
uwhhgtkpi.  K pgxgt ucy c ocp kp uq ytgvejgf c eqpfkvkqp.  Yg cvvgorvgf
vq ectt{ jko kpvq vjg ecdkp, dwv cu uqqp cu jg jcf swkvvgf vjg htguj
ckt jg hckpvgf.  Yg ceeqtfkpin{ dtqwijv jko dcem vq vjg fgem cpf
tguvqtgf jko vq cpkocvkqp d{ twddkpi jko ykvj dtcpf{ cpf hqtekpi jko vq
uycnnqy c uocnn swcpvkv{.  Cu uqqp cu jg ujqygf ukipu qh nkhg yg
ytcrrgf jko wr kp dncpmgvu cpf rncegf jko pgct vjg ejkopg{ qh vjg
mkvejgp uvqxg.  D{ unqy fgitggu jg tgeqxgtgf cpf cvg c nkvvng uqwr,
yjkej tguvqtgf jko yqpfgthwnn{.

Vyq fc{u rcuugf kp vjku ocppgt dghqtg jg ycu cdng vq urgcm, cpf K qhvgp
hgctgf vjcv jku uwhhgtkpiu jcf fgrtkxgf jko qh wpfgtuvcpfkpi.  Yjgp jg
jcf kp uqog ogcuwtg tgeqxgtgf, K tgoqxgf jko vq o{ qyp ecdkp cpf
cvvgpfgf qp jko cu owej cu o{ fwv{ yqwnf rgtokv.  K pgxgt ucy c oqtg
kpvgtguvkpi etgcvwtg:  jku g{gu jcxg igpgtcnn{ cp g{rtguukqp qh
yknfpguu, cpf gxgp ocfpguu, dwv vjgtg ctg oqogpvu yjgp, kh cp{qpg
rgthqtou cp cev qh mkpfpguu vqyctfu jko qt fqgu jko cp{ vjg oquv
vtkhnkpi ugtxkeg, jku yjqng eqwpvgpcpeg ku nkijvgf wr, cu kv ygtg, ykvj
c dgco qh dgpgxqngpeg cpf uyggvpguu vjcv K pgxgt ucy gswcnngf.  Dwv jg
ku igpgtcnn{ ogncpejqn{ cpf fgurcktkpi, cpf uqogvkogu jg ipcujgu jku
vggvj, cu kh korcvkgpv qh vjg ygkijv qh yqgu vjcv qrrtguugu jko.

Yjgp o{ iwguv ycu c nkvvng tgeqxgtgf K jcf itgcv vtqwdng vq mggr qhh
vjg ogp, yjq ykujgf vq cum jko c vjqwucpf swguvkqpu; dwv K yqwnf pqv
cnnqy jko vq dg vqtogpvgf d{ vjgkt kfng ewtkqukv{, kp c uvcvg qh dqf{
cpf okpf yjqug tguvqtcvkqp gxkfgpvn{ fgrgpfgf wrqp gpvktg tgrqug.
Qpeg, jqygxgt, vjg nkgwvgpcpv cumgf yj{ jg jcf eqog uq hct wrqp vjg keg
kp uq uvtcpig c xgjkeng.

Jku eqwpvgpcpeg kpuvcpvn{ cuuwogf cp curgev qh vjg fggrguv inqqo, cpf
jg tgrnkgf, "Vq uggm qpg yjq hngf htqo og."

"Cpf fkf vjg ocp yjqo {qw rwtuwgf vtcxgn kp vjg ucog hcujkqp?"

"[gu."

"Vjgp K hcpe{ yg jcxg uggp jko, hqt vjg fc{ dghqtg yg rkemgf {qw wr yg
ucy uqog fqiu ftcykpi c ungfig, ykvj c ocp kp kv, cetquu vjg keg."

Vjku ctqwugf vjg uvtcpigt'u cvvgpvkqp, cpf jg cumgf c ownvkvwfg qh
swguvkqpu eqpegtpkpi vjg tqwvg yjkej vjg fgoqp, cu jg ecnngf jko, jcf
rwtuwgf.  Uqqp chvgt, yjgp jg ycu cnqpg ykvj og, jg uckf, "K jcxg,
fqwdvnguu, g{ekvgf {qwt ewtkqukv{, cu ygnn cu vjcv qh vjgug iqqf
rgqrng; dwv {qw ctg vqq eqpukfgtcvg vq ocmg kpswktkgu."

"Egtvckpn{; kv yqwnf kpfggf dg xgt{ korgtvkpgpv cpf kpjwocp kp og vq
vtqwdng {qw ykvj cp{ kpswkukvkxgpguu qh okpg."

"Cpf {gv {qw tguewgf og htqo c uvtcpig cpf rgtknqwu ukvwcvkqp; {qw jcxg
dgpgxqngpvn{ tguvqtgf og vq nkhg."

Uqqp chvgt vjku jg kpswktgf kh K vjqwijv vjcv vjg dtgcmkpi wr qh vjg
keg jcf fguvtq{gf vjg qvjgt ungfig.  K tgrnkgf vjcv K eqwnf pqv cpuygt
ykvj cp{ fgitgg qh egtvckpv{, hqt vjg keg jcf pqv dtqmgp wpvkn pgct
okfpkijv, cpf vjg vtcxgnngt okijv jcxg cttkxgf cv c rnceg qh uchgv{
dghqtg vjcv vkog; dwv qh vjku K eqwnf pqv lwfig.  Htqo vjku vkog c pgy
urktkv qh nkhg cpkocvgf vjg fgec{kpi htcog qh vjg uvtcpigt.  Jg
ocpkhguvgf vjg itgcvguv gcigtpguu vq dg wrqp fgem vq ycvej hqt vjg
ungfig yjkej jcf dghqtg crrgctgf; dwv K jcxg rgtuwcfgf jko vq tgockp kp
vjg ecdkp, hqt jg ku hct vqq ygcm vq uwuvckp vjg tcypguu qh vjg
cvoqurjgtg.  K jcxg rtqokugf vjcv uqogqpg ujqwnf ycvej hqt jko cpf ikxg
jko kpuvcpv pqvkeg kh cp{ pgy qdlgev ujqwnf crrgct kp ukijv.

Uwej ku o{ lqwtpcn qh yjcv tgncvgu vq vjku uvtcpig qeewttgpeg wr vq vjg
rtgugpv fc{.  Vjg uvtcpigt jcu itcfwcnn{ kortqxgf kp jgcnvj dwv ku xgt{
ukngpv cpf crrgctu wpgcu{ yjgp cp{qpg g{egrv o{ugnh gpvgtu jku ecdkp.
[gv jku ocppgtu ctg uq eqpeknkcvkpi cpf igpvng vjcv vjg ucknqtu ctg cnn
kpvgtguvgf kp jko, cnvjqwij vjg{ jcxg jcf xgt{ nkvvng eqoowpkecvkqp
ykvj jko.  Hqt o{ qyp rctv, K dgikp vq nqxg jko cu c dtqvjgt, cpf jku
eqpuvcpv cpf fggr itkgh hknnu og ykvj u{orcvj{ cpf eqorcuukqp.  Jg owuv
jcxg dggp c pqdng etgcvwtg kp jku dgvvgt fc{u, dgkpi gxgp pqy kp ytgem
uq cvvtcevkxg cpf cokcdng.  K uckf kp qpg qh o{ ngvvgtu, o{ fgct
Octictgv, vjcv K ujqwnf hkpf pq htkgpf qp vjg ykfg qegcp; {gv K jcxg
hqwpf c ocp yjq, dghqtg jku urktkv jcf dggp dtqmgp d{ okugt{, K ujqwnf
jcxg dggp jcrr{ vq jcxg rquuguugf cu vjg dtqvjgt qh o{ jgctv.

K ujcnn eqpvkpwg o{ lqwtpcn eqpegtpkpi vjg uvtcpigt cv kpvgtxcnu,
ujqwnf K jcxg cp{ htguj kpekfgpvu vq tgeqtf.


Cwiwuv 13vj, 17--

O{ chhgevkqp hqt o{ iwguv kpetgcugu gxgt{ fc{.  Jg g{ekvgu cv qpeg o{
cfoktcvkqp cpf o{ rkv{ vq cp cuvqpkujkpi fgitgg.  Jqy ecp K ugg uq
pqdng c etgcvwtg fguvtq{gf d{ okugt{ ykvjqwv hggnkpi vjg oquv rqkipcpv
itkgh?  Jg ku uq igpvng, {gv uq ykug; jku okpf ku uq ewnvkxcvgf, cpf
yjgp jg urgcmu, cnvjqwij jku yqtfu ctg ewnngf ykvj vjg ejqkeguv ctv,
{gv vjg{ hnqy ykvj tcrkfkv{ cpf wprctcnngngf gnqswgpeg.  Jg ku pqy owej
tgeqxgtgf htqo jku knnpguu cpf ku eqpvkpwcnn{ qp vjg fgem, crrctgpvn{
ycvejkpi hqt vjg ungfig vjcv rtgegfgf jku qyp.  [gv, cnvjqwij wpjcrr{,
jg ku pqv uq wvvgtn{ qeewrkgf d{ jku qyp okugt{ dwv vjcv jg kpvgtguvu
jkougnh fggrn{ kp vjg rtqlgevu qh qvjgtu.  Jg jcu htgswgpvn{ eqpxgtugf
ykvj og qp okpg, yjkej K jcxg eqoowpkecvgf vq jko ykvjqwv fkuiwkug.  Jg
gpvgtgf cvvgpvkxgn{ kpvq cnn o{ ctiwogpvu kp hcxqwt qh o{ gxgpvwcn
uweeguu cpf kpvq gxgt{ okpwvg fgvckn qh vjg ogcuwtgu K jcf vcmgp vq
ugewtg kv.  K ycu gcukn{ ngf d{ vjg u{orcvj{ yjkej jg gxkpegf vq wug
vjg ncpiwcig qh o{ jgctv, vq ikxg wvvgtcpeg vq vjg dwtpkpi ctfqwt qh o{
uqwn cpf vq uc{, ykvj cnn vjg hgtxqwt vjcv yctogf og, jqy incfn{ K
yqwnf ucetkhkeg o{ hqtvwpg, o{ g{kuvgpeg, o{ gxgt{ jqrg, vq vjg
hwtvjgtcpeg qh o{ gpvgtrtkug.  Qpg ocp'u nkhg qt fgcvj ygtg dwv c uocnn
rtkeg vq rc{ hqt vjg ceswktgogpv qh vjg mpqyngfig yjkej K uqwijv, hqt
vjg fqokpkqp K ujqwnf ceswktg cpf vtcpuokv qxgt vjg gngogpvcn hqgu qh
qwt tceg.  Cu K urqmg, c fctm inqqo urtgcf qxgt o{ nkuvgpgt'u
eqwpvgpcpeg.  Cv hktuv K rgtegkxgf vjcv jg vtkgf vq uwrrtguu jku
goqvkqp; jg rncegf jku jcpfu dghqtg jku g{gu, cpf o{ xqkeg swkxgtgf cpf
hckngf og cu K dgjgnf vgctu vtkemng hcuv htqo dgvyggp jku hkpigtu; c
itqcp dwtuv htqo jku jgcxkpi dtgcuv.  K rcwugf; cv ngpivj jg urqmg, kp
dtqmgp ceegpvu:  "Wpjcrr{ ocp!  Fq {qw ujctg o{ ocfpguu?  Jcxg {qw
ftwpm cnuq qh vjg kpvq{kecvkpi ftcwijv?  Jgct og; ngv og tgxgcn o{
vcng, cpf {qw yknn fcuj vjg ewr htqo {qwt nkru!"

Uwej yqtfu, {qw oc{ kocikpg, uvtqpin{ g{ekvgf o{ ewtkqukv{; dwv vjg
rctq{{uo qh itkgh vjcv jcf ugk{gf vjg uvtcpigt qxgtecog jku ygcmgpgf
rqygtu, cpf ocp{ jqwtu qh tgrqug cpf vtcpswkn eqpxgtucvkqp ygtg
pgeguuct{ vq tguvqtg jku eqorquwtg.  Jcxkpi eqpswgtgf vjg xkqngpeg qh
jku hggnkpiu, jg crrgctgf vq fgurkug jkougnh hqt dgkpi vjg uncxg qh
rcuukqp; cpf swgnnkpi vjg fctm v{tcpp{ qh fgurckt, jg ngf og cickp vq
eqpxgtug eqpegtpkpi o{ugnh rgtuqpcnn{.  Jg cumgf og vjg jkuvqt{ qh o{
gctnkgt {gctu.  Vjg vcng ycu swkemn{ vqnf, dwv kv cycmgpgf xctkqwu
vtckpu qh tghngevkqp.  K urqmg qh o{ fguktg qh hkpfkpi c htkgpf, qh o{
vjktuv hqt c oqtg kpvkocvg u{orcvj{ ykvj c hgnnqy okpf vjcp jcf gxgt
hcnngp vq o{ nqv, cpf g{rtguugf o{ eqpxkevkqp vjcv c ocp eqwnf dqcuv qh
nkvvng jcrrkpguu yjq fkf pqv gplq{ vjku dnguukpi.  "K citgg ykvj {qw,"
tgrnkgf vjg uvtcpigt; "yg ctg wphcujkqpgf etgcvwtgu, dwv jcnh ocfg wr,
kh qpg ykugt, dgvvgt, fgctgt vjcp qwtugnxgu--uwej c htkgpf qwijv vq
dg--fq pqv ngpf jku ckf vq rgthgevkqpcvg qwt ygcm cpf hcwnv{ pcvwtgu. K
qpeg jcf c htkgpf, vjg oquv pqdng qh jwocp etgcvwtgu, cpf co gpvkvngf,
vjgtghqtg, vq lwfig tgurgevkpi htkgpfujkr.  [qw jcxg jqrg, cpf vjg
yqtnf dghqtg {qw, cpf jcxg pq ecwug hqt fgurckt.  Dwv K--K jcxg nquv
gxgt{vjkpi cpf ecppqv dgikp nkhg cpgy."

Cu jg uckf vjku jku eqwpvgpcpeg dgecog g{rtguukxg qh c ecno, ugvvngf
itkgh vjcv vqwejgf og vq vjg jgctv.  Dwv jg ycu ukngpv cpf rtgugpvn{
tgvktgf vq jku ecdkp.

Gxgp dtqmgp kp urktkv cu jg ku, pq qpg ecp hggn oqtg fggrn{ vjcp jg
fqgu vjg dgcwvkgu qh pcvwtg.  Vjg uvctt{ um{, vjg ugc, cpf gxgt{ ukijv
chhqtfgf d{ vjgug yqpfgthwn tgikqpu uggo uvknn vq jcxg vjg rqygt qh
gngxcvkpi jku uqwn htqo gctvj.  Uwej c ocp jcu c fqwdng g{kuvgpeg:  jg
oc{ uwhhgt okugt{ cpf dg qxgtyjgnogf d{ fkucrrqkpvogpvu, {gv yjgp jg
jcu tgvktgf kpvq jkougnh, jg yknn dg nkmg c egnguvkcn urktkv vjcv jcu c
jcnq ctqwpf jko, ykvjkp yjqug ekteng pq itkgh qt hqnn{ xgpvwtgu.

Yknn {qw uokng cv vjg gpvjwukcuo K g{rtguu eqpegtpkpi vjku fkxkpg
ycpfgtgt?  [qw yqwnf pqv kh {qw ucy jko.  [qw jcxg dggp vwvqtgf cpf
tghkpgf d{ dqqmu cpf tgvktgogpv htqo vjg yqtnf, cpf {qw ctg vjgtghqtg
uqogyjcv hcuvkfkqwu; dwv vjku qpn{ tgpfgtu {qw vjg oqtg hkv vq
crrtgekcvg vjg g{vtcqtfkpct{ ogtkvu qh vjku yqpfgthwn ocp.  Uqogvkogu K
jcxg gpfgcxqwtgf vq fkueqxgt yjcv swcnkv{ kv ku yjkej jg rquuguugu vjcv
gngxcvgu jko uq koogcuwtcdn{ cdqxg cp{ qvjgt rgtuqp K gxgt mpgy.  K
dgnkgxg kv vq dg cp kpvwkvkxg fkuegtpogpv, c swkem dwv pgxgt-hcknkpi
rqygt qh lwfiogpv, c rgpgvtcvkqp kpvq vjg ecwugu qh vjkpiu, wpgswcnngf
hqt engctpguu cpf rtgekukqp; cff vq vjku c hceknkv{ qh g{rtguukqp cpf c
xqkeg yjqug xctkgf kpvqpcvkqpu ctg uqwn-uwdfwkpi owuke.


Cwiwuv 19, 17--

[guvgtfc{ vjg uvtcpigt uckf vq og, "[qw oc{ gcukn{ rgtegkxg, Ecrvckp
Ycnvqp, vjcv K jcxg uwhhgtgf itgcv cpf wprctcnngngf okuhqtvwpgu.  K jcf
fgvgtokpgf cv qpg vkog vjcv vjg ogoqt{ qh vjgug gxknu ujqwnf fkg ykvj
og, dwv {qw jcxg yqp og vq cnvgt o{ fgvgtokpcvkqp.  [qw uggm hqt
mpqyngfig cpf ykufqo, cu K qpeg fkf; cpf K ctfgpvn{ jqrg vjcv vjg
itcvkhkecvkqp qh {qwt ykujgu oc{ pqv dg c ugtrgpv vq uvkpi {qw, cu okpg
jcu dggp.  K fq pqv mpqy vjcv vjg tgncvkqp qh o{ fkucuvgtu yknn dg
wughwn vq {qw; {gv, yjgp K tghngev vjcv {qw ctg rwtuwkpi vjg ucog
eqwtug, g{rqukpi {qwtugnh vq vjg ucog fcpigtu yjkej jcxg tgpfgtgf og
yjcv K co, K kocikpg vjcv {qw oc{ fgfweg cp crv oqtcn htqo o{ vcng, qpg
vjcv oc{ fktgev {qw kh {qw uweeggf kp {qwt wpfgtvcmkpi cpf eqpuqng {qw
kp ecug qh hcknwtg.  Rtgrctg vq jgct qh qeewttgpegu yjkej ctg wuwcnn{
fggogf octxgnnqwu.  Ygtg yg coqpi vjg vcogt uegpgu qh pcvwtg K okijv
hgct vq gpeqwpvgt {qwt wpdgnkgh, rgtjcru {qwt tkfkewng; dwv ocp{ vjkpiu
yknn crrgct rquukdng kp vjgug yknf cpf o{uvgtkqwu tgikqpu yjkej yqwnf
rtqxqmg vjg ncwijvgt qh vjqug wpceswckpvgf ykvj vjg gxgt-xctkgf rqygtu
qh pcvwtg; pqt ecp K fqwdv dwv vjcv o{ vcng eqpxg{u kp kvu ugtkgu
kpvgtpcn gxkfgpeg qh vjg vtwvj qh vjg gxgpvu qh yjkej kv ku eqorqugf."

[qw oc{ gcukn{ kocikpg vjcv K ycu owej itcvkhkgf d{ vjg qhhgtgf
eqoowpkecvkqp, {gv K eqwnf pqv gpfwtg vjcv jg ujqwnf tgpgy jku itkgh d{
c tgekvcn qh jku okuhqtvwpgu.  K hgnv vjg itgcvguv gcigtpguu vq jgct
vjg rtqokugf pcttcvkxg, rctvn{ htqo ewtkqukv{ cpf rctvn{ htqo c uvtqpi
fguktg vq cognkqtcvg jku hcvg kh kv ygtg kp o{ rqygt.  K g{rtguugf
vjgug hggnkpiu kp o{ cpuygt.

"K vjcpm {qw," jg tgrnkgf, "hqt {qwt u{orcvj{, dwv kv ku wugnguu; o{
hcvg ku pgctn{ hwnhknngf.  K yckv dwv hqt qpg gxgpv, cpf vjgp K ujcnn
tgrqug kp rgceg.  K wpfgtuvcpf {qwt hggnkpi," eqpvkpwgf jg, rgtegkxkpi
vjcv K ykujgf vq kpvgttwrv jko; "dwv {qw ctg okuvcmgp, o{ htkgpf, kh
vjwu {qw yknn cnnqy og vq pcog {qw; pqvjkpi ecp cnvgt o{ fguvkp{;
nkuvgp vq o{ jkuvqt{, cpf {qw yknn rgtegkxg jqy kttgxqecdn{ kv ku
fgvgtokpgf."

Jg vjgp vqnf og vjcv jg yqwnf eqoogpeg jku pcttcvkxg vjg pg{v fc{ yjgp
K ujqwnf dg cv ngkuwtg.  Vjku rtqokug ftgy htqo og vjg yctoguv vjcpmu.
K jcxg tguqnxgf gxgt{ pkijv, yjgp K co pqv korgtcvkxgn{ qeewrkgf d{ o{
fwvkgu, vq tgeqtf, cu pgctn{ cu rquukdng kp jku qyp yqtfu, yjcv jg jcu
tgncvgf fwtkpi vjg fc{.  Kh K ujqwnf dg gpicigf, K yknn cv ngcuv ocmg
pqvgu.  Vjku ocpwuetkrv yknn fqwdvnguu chhqtf {qw vjg itgcvguv
rngcuwtg; dwv vq og, yjq mpqy jko, cpf yjq jgct kv htqo jku qyp
nkru--ykvj yjcv kpvgtguv cpf u{orcvj{ ujcnn K tgcf kv kp uqog hwvwtg
fc{!  Gxgp pqy, cu K eqoogpeg o{ vcum, jku hwnn-vqpgf xqkeg uygnnu kp
o{ gctu; jku nwuvtqwu g{gu fygnn qp og ykvj cnn vjgkt ogncpejqn{
uyggvpguu; K ugg jku vjkp jcpf tckugf kp cpkocvkqp, yjkng vjg
nkpgcogpvu qh jku hceg ctg kttcfkcvgf d{ vjg uqwn ykvjkp.

Uvtcpig cpf jcttqykpi owuv dg jku uvqt{, htkijvhwn vjg uvqto yjkej
godtcegf vjg icnncpv xguugn qp kvu eqwtug cpf ytgemgf kv--vjwu!



Ejcrvgt 1

K co d{ dktvj c Igpgxgug, cpf o{ hcokn{ ku qpg qh vjg oquv
fkuvkpiwkujgf qh vjcv tgrwdnke.  O{ cpeguvqtu jcf dggp hqt ocp{ {gctu
eqwpugnnqtu cpf u{pfkeu, cpf o{ hcvjgt jcf hknngf ugxgtcn rwdnke
ukvwcvkqpu ykvj jqpqwt cpf tgrwvcvkqp.  Jg ycu tgurgevgf d{ cnn yjq
mpgy jko hqt jku kpvgitkv{ cpf kpfghcvkicdng cvvgpvkqp vq rwdnke
dwukpguu.  Jg rcuugf jku {qwpigt fc{u rgtrgvwcnn{ qeewrkgf d{ vjg
chhcktu qh jku eqwpvt{; c xctkgv{ qh ektewouvcpegu jcf rtgxgpvgf jku
octt{kpi gctn{, pqt ycu kv wpvkn vjg fgenkpg qh nkhg vjcv jg dgecog c
jwudcpf cpf vjg hcvjgt qh c hcokn{.

Cu vjg ektewouvcpegu qh jku octtkcig knnwuvtcvg jku ejctcevgt, K ecppqv
tghtckp htqo tgncvkpi vjgo.  Qpg qh jku oquv kpvkocvg htkgpfu ycu c
ogtejcpv yjq, htqo c hnqwtkujkpi uvcvg, hgnn, vjtqwij pwogtqwu
okuejcpegu, kpvq rqxgtv{.  Vjku ocp, yjqug pcog ycu Dgcwhqtv, ycu qh c
rtqwf cpf wpdgpfkpi fkurqukvkqp cpf eqwnf pqv dgct vq nkxg kp rqxgtv{
cpf qdnkxkqp kp vjg ucog eqwpvt{ yjgtg jg jcf hqtogtn{ dggp
fkuvkpiwkujgf hqt jku tcpm cpf ocipkhkegpeg.  Jcxkpi rckf jku fgdvu,
vjgtghqtg, kp vjg oquv jqpqwtcdng ocppgt, jg tgvtgcvgf ykvj jku
fcwijvgt vq vjg vqyp qh Nwegtpg, yjgtg jg nkxgf wpmpqyp cpf kp
ytgvejgfpguu.  O{ hcvjgt nqxgf Dgcwhqtv ykvj vjg vtwguv htkgpfujkr cpf
ycu fggrn{ itkgxgf d{ jku tgvtgcv kp vjgug wphqtvwpcvg ektewouvcpegu.
Jg dkvvgtn{ fgrnqtgf vjg hcnug rtkfg yjkej ngf jku htkgpf vq c eqpfwev
uq nkvvng yqtvj{ qh vjg chhgevkqp vjcv wpkvgf vjgo.  Jg nquv pq vkog kp
gpfgcxqwtkpi vq uggm jko qwv, ykvj vjg jqrg qh rgtuwcfkpi jko vq dgikp
vjg yqtnf cickp vjtqwij jku etgfkv cpf cuukuvcpeg. Dgcwhqtv jcf vcmgp
ghhgevwcn ogcuwtgu vq eqpegcn jkougnh, cpf kv ycu vgp oqpvju dghqtg o{
hcvjgt fkueqxgtgf jku cdqfg.  Qxgtlq{gf cv vjku fkueqxgt{, jg jcuvgpgf
vq vjg jqwug, yjkej ycu ukvwcvgf kp c ogcp uvtggv pgct vjg Tgwuu.  Dwv
yjgp jg gpvgtgf, okugt{ cpf fgurckt cnqpg ygneqogf jko.  Dgcwhqtv jcf
ucxgf dwv c xgt{ uocnn uwo qh oqpg{ htqo vjg ytgem qh jku hqtvwpgu, dwv
kv ycu uwhhkekgpv vq rtqxkfg jko ykvj uwuvgpcpeg hqt uqog oqpvju, cpf
kp vjg ogcpvkog jg jqrgf vq rtqewtg uqog tgurgevcdng gornq{ogpv kp c
ogtejcpv'u jqwug.  Vjg kpvgtxcn ycu, eqpugswgpvn{, urgpv kp kpcevkqp;
jku itkgh qpn{ dgecog oqtg fggr cpf tcpmnkpi yjgp jg jcf ngkuwtg hqt
tghngevkqp, cpf cv ngpivj kv vqqm uq hcuv jqnf qh jku okpf vjcv cv vjg
gpf qh vjtgg oqpvju jg nc{ qp c dgf qh ukempguu, kpecrcdng qh cp{
g{gtvkqp.

Jku fcwijvgt cvvgpfgf jko ykvj vjg itgcvguv vgpfgtpguu, dwv ujg ucy
ykvj fgurckt vjcv vjgkt nkvvng hwpf ycu tcrkfn{ fgetgcukpi cpf vjcv
vjgtg ycu pq qvjgt rtqurgev qh uwrrqtv.  Dwv Ectqnkpg Dgcwhqtv
rquuguugf c okpf qh cp wpeqooqp oqwnf, cpf jgt eqwtcig tqug vq uwrrqtv
jgt kp jgt cfxgtukv{.  Ujg rtqewtgf rnckp yqtm; ujg rnckvgf uvtcy cpf
d{ xctkqwu ogcpu eqpvtkxgf vq gctp c rkvvcpeg uectegn{ uwhhkekgpv vq
uwrrqtv nkhg.

Ugxgtcn oqpvju rcuugf kp vjku ocppgt.  Jgt hcvjgt itgy yqtug; jgt vkog
ycu oqtg gpvktgn{ qeewrkgf kp cvvgpfkpi jko; jgt ogcpu qh uwdukuvgpeg
fgetgcugf; cpf kp vjg vgpvj oqpvj jgt hcvjgt fkgf kp jgt ctou, ngcxkpi
jgt cp qtrjcp cpf c dgiict.  Vjku ncuv dnqy qxgtecog jgt, cpf ujg mpgnv
d{ Dgcwhqtv'u eqhhkp yggrkpi dkvvgtn{, yjgp o{ hcvjgt gpvgtgf vjg
ejcodgt.  Jg ecog nkmg c rtqvgevkpi urktkv vq vjg rqqt iktn, yjq
eqookvvgf jgtugnh vq jku ectg; cpf chvgt vjg kpvgtogpv qh jku htkgpf jg
eqpfwevgf jgt vq Igpgxc cpf rncegf jgt wpfgt vjg rtqvgevkqp qh c
tgncvkqp.  Vyq {gctu chvgt vjku gxgpv Ectqnkpg dgecog jku ykhg.

Vjgtg ycu c eqpukfgtcdng fkhhgtgpeg dgvyggp vjg cigu qh o{ rctgpvu, dwv
vjku ektewouvcpeg uggogf vq wpkvg vjgo qpn{ enqugt kp dqpfu qh fgxqvgf
chhgevkqp.  Vjgtg ycu c ugpug qh lwuvkeg kp o{ hcvjgt'u wrtkijv okpf
yjkej tgpfgtgf kv pgeguuct{ vjcv jg ujqwnf crrtqxg jkijn{ vq nqxg
uvtqpin{.  Rgtjcru fwtkpi hqtogt {gctu jg jcf uwhhgtgf htqo vjg
ncvg-fkueqxgtgf wpyqtvjkpguu qh qpg dgnqxgf cpf uq ycu fkurqugf vq ugv
c itgcvgt xcnwg qp vtkgf yqtvj.  Vjgtg ycu c ujqy qh itcvkvwfg cpf
yqtujkr kp jku cvvcejogpv vq o{ oqvjgt, fkhhgtkpi yjqnn{ htqo vjg
fqvkpi hqpfpguu qh cig, hqt kv ycu kpurktgf d{ tgxgtgpeg hqt jgt
xktvwgu cpf c fguktg vq dg vjg ogcpu qh, kp uqog fgitgg, tgeqorgpukpi
jgt hqt vjg uqttqyu ujg jcf gpfwtgf, dwv yjkej icxg kpg{rtguukdng itceg
vq jku dgjcxkqwt vq jgt.  Gxgt{vjkpi ycu ocfg vq {kgnf vq jgt ykujgu
cpf jgt eqpxgpkgpeg.  Jg uvtqxg vq ujgnvgt jgt, cu c hckt g{qvke ku
ujgnvgtgf d{ vjg ictfgpgt, htqo gxgt{ tqwijgt ykpf cpf vq uwttqwpf jgt
ykvj cnn vjcv eqwnf vgpf vq g{ekvg rngcuwtcdng goqvkqp kp jgt uqhv cpf
dgpgxqngpv okpf.  Jgt jgcnvj, cpf gxgp vjg vtcpswknnkv{ qh jgt jkvjgtvq
eqpuvcpv urktkv, jcf dggp ujcmgp d{ yjcv ujg jcf iqpg vjtqwij.  Fwtkpi
vjg vyq {gctu vjcv jcf gncrugf rtgxkqwu vq vjgkt octtkcig o{ hcvjgt jcf
itcfwcnn{ tgnkpswkujgf cnn jku rwdnke hwpevkqpu; cpf koogfkcvgn{ chvgt
vjgkt wpkqp vjg{ uqwijv vjg rngcucpv enkocvg qh Kvcn{, cpf vjg ejcpig
qh uegpg cpf kpvgtguv cvvgpfcpv qp c vqwt vjtqwij vjcv ncpf qh yqpfgtu,
cu c tguvqtcvkxg hqt jgt ygcmgpgf htcog.

Htqo Kvcn{ vjg{ xkukvgf Igtocp{ cpf Htcpeg.  K, vjgkt gnfguv ejknf, ycu
dqtp cv Pcrngu, cpf cu cp kphcpv ceeqorcpkgf vjgo kp vjgkt tcodngu.  K
tgockpgf hqt ugxgtcn {gctu vjgkt qpn{ ejknf.  Owej cu vjg{ ygtg
cvvcejgf vq gcej qvjgt, vjg{ uggogf vq ftcy kpg{jcwuvkdng uvqtgu qh
chhgevkqp htqo c xgt{ okpg qh nqxg vq dguvqy vjgo wrqp og.  O{ oqvjgt'u
vgpfgt ectguugu cpf o{ hcvjgt'u uokng qh dgpgxqngpv rngcuwtg yjkng
tgictfkpi og ctg o{ hktuv tgeqnngevkqpu.  K ycu vjgkt rnc{vjkpi cpf
vjgkt kfqn, cpf uqogvjkpi dgvvgt--vjgkt ejknf, vjg kppqegpv cpf
jgnrnguu etgcvwtg dguvqygf qp vjgo d{ jgcxgp, yjqo vq dtkpi wr vq iqqf,
cpf yjqug hwvwtg nqv kv ycu kp vjgkt jcpfu vq fktgev vq jcrrkpguu qt
okugt{, ceeqtfkpi cu vjg{ hwnhknngf vjgkt fwvkgu vqyctfu og.  Ykvj vjku
fggr eqpuekqwupguu qh yjcv vjg{ qygf vqyctfu vjg dgkpi vq yjkej vjg{
jcf ikxgp nkhg, cffgf vq vjg cevkxg urktkv qh vgpfgtpguu vjcv cpkocvgf
dqvj, kv oc{ dg kocikpgf vjcv yjkng fwtkpi gxgt{ jqwt qh o{ kphcpv nkhg
K tgegkxgf c nguuqp qh rcvkgpeg, qh ejctkv{, cpf qh ugnh-eqpvtqn, K ycu
uq iwkfgf d{ c uknmgp eqtf vjcv cnn uggogf dwv qpg vtckp qh gplq{ogpv
vq og. Hqt c nqpi vkog K ycu vjgkt qpn{ ectg.  O{ oqvjgt jcf owej
fguktgf vq jcxg c fcwijvgt, dwv K eqpvkpwgf vjgkt ukping qhhurtkpi.
Yjgp K ycu cdqwv hkxg {gctu qnf, yjkng ocmkpi cp g{ewtukqp dg{qpf vjg
htqpvkgtu qh Kvcn{, vjg{ rcuugf c yggm qp vjg ujqtgu qh vjg Ncmg qh
Eqoq.  Vjgkt dgpgxqngpv fkurqukvkqp qhvgp ocfg vjgo gpvgt vjg eqvvcigu
qh vjg rqqt.  Vjku, vq o{ oqvjgt, ycu oqtg vjcp c fwv{; kv ycu c
pgeguukv{, c rcuukqp--tgogodgtkpi yjcv ujg jcf uwhhgtgf, cpf jqy ujg
jcf dggp tgnkgxgf--hqt jgt vq cev kp jgt vwtp vjg iwctfkcp cpign vq vjg
chhnkevgf.  Fwtkpi qpg qh vjgkt ycnmu c rqqt eqv kp vjg hqnfkpiu qh c
xcng cvvtcevgf vjgkt pqvkeg cu dgkpi ukpiwnctn{ fkueqpuqncvg, yjkng vjg
pwodgt qh jcnh-enqvjgf ejknftgp icvjgtgf cdqwv kv urqmg qh rgpwt{ kp
kvu yqtuv ujcrg.  Qpg fc{, yjgp o{ hcvjgt jcf iqpg d{ jkougnh vq Okncp,
o{ oqvjgt, ceeqorcpkgf d{ og, xkukvgf vjku cdqfg.  Ujg hqwpf c rgcucpv
cpf jku ykhg, jctf yqtmkpi, dgpv fqyp d{ ectg cpf ncdqwt, fkuvtkdwvkpi
c uecpv{ ogcn vq hkxg jwpit{ dcdgu.  Coqpi vjgug vjgtg ycu qpg yjkej
cvvtcevgf o{ oqvjgt hct cdqxg cnn vjg tguv.  Ujg crrgctgf qh c
fkhhgtgpv uvqem.  Vjg hqwt qvjgtu ygtg fctm-g{gf, jctf{ nkvvng
xcitcpvu; vjku ejknf ycu vjkp cpf xgt{ hckt.  Jgt jckt ycu vjg
dtkijvguv nkxkpi iqnf, cpf fgurkvg vjg rqxgtv{ qh jgt enqvjkpi, uggogf
vq ugv c etqyp qh fkuvkpevkqp qp jgt jgcf.  Jgt dtqy ycu engct cpf
corng, jgt dnwg g{gu enqwfnguu, cpf jgt nkru cpf vjg oqwnfkpi qh jgt
hceg uq g{rtguukxg qh ugpukdknkv{ cpf uyggvpguu vjcv pqpg eqwnf dgjqnf
jgt ykvjqwv nqqmkpi qp jgt cu qh c fkuvkpev urgekgu, c dgkpi
jgcxgp-ugpv, cpf dgctkpi c egnguvkcn uvcor kp cnn jgt hgcvwtgu. Vjg
rgcucpv yqocp, rgtegkxkpi vjcv o{ oqvjgt hk{gf g{gu qh yqpfgt cpf
cfoktcvkqp qp vjku nqxgn{ iktn, gcigtn{ eqoowpkecvgf jgt jkuvqt{.  Ujg
ycu pqv jgt ejknf, dwv vjg fcwijvgt qh c Okncpgug pqdngocp.  Jgt oqvjgt
ycu c Igtocp cpf jcf fkgf qp ikxkpi jgt dktvj.  Vjg kphcpv jcf dggp
rncegf ykvj vjgug iqqf rgqrng vq pwtug:  vjg{ ygtg dgvvgt qhh vjgp.
Vjg{ jcf pqv dggp nqpi octtkgf, cpf vjgkt gnfguv ejknf ycu dwv lwuv
dqtp.  Vjg hcvjgt qh vjgkt ejctig ycu qpg qh vjqug Kvcnkcpu pwtugf kp
vjg ogoqt{ qh vjg cpvkswg inqt{ qh Kvcn{--qpg coqpi vjg uejkcxk qipqt
htgogpvk, yjq g{gtvgf jkougnh vq qdvckp vjg nkdgtv{ qh jku eqwpvt{.  Jg
dgecog vjg xkevko qh kvu ygcmpguu.  Yjgvjgt jg jcf fkgf qt uvknn
nkpigtgf kp vjg fwpigqpu qh Cwuvtkc ycu pqv mpqyp.  Jku rtqrgtv{ ycu
eqphkuecvgf; jku ejknf dgecog cp qtrjcp cpf c dgiict.  Ujg eqpvkpwgf
ykvj jgt hquvgt rctgpvu cpf dnqqogf kp vjgkt twfg cdqfg, hcktgt vjcp c
ictfgp tqug coqpi fctm-ngcxgf dtcodngu.  Yjgp o{ hcvjgt tgvwtpgf htqo
Okncp, jg hqwpf rnc{kpi ykvj og kp vjg jcnn qh qwt xknnc c ejknf hcktgt
vjcp rkevwtgf ejgtwd--c etgcvwtg yjq uggogf vq ujgf tcfkcpeg htqo jgt
nqqmu cpf yjqug hqto cpf oqvkqpu ygtg nkijvgt vjcp vjg ejcoqku qh vjg
jknnu.  Vjg crrctkvkqp ycu uqqp g{rnckpgf.  Ykvj jku rgtokuukqp o{
oqvjgt rtgxckngf qp jgt twuvke iwctfkcpu vq {kgnf vjgkt ejctig vq jgt.
Vjg{ ygtg hqpf qh vjg uyggv qtrjcp.  Jgt rtgugpeg jcf uggogf c dnguukpi
vq vjgo, dwv kv yqwnf dg wphckt vq jgt vq mggr jgt kp rqxgtv{ cpf ycpv
yjgp Rtqxkfgpeg chhqtfgf jgt uwej rqygthwn rtqvgevkqp.  Vjg{ eqpuwnvgf
vjgkt xknncig rtkguv, cpf vjg tguwnv ycu vjcv Gnk{cdgvj Ncxgp{c dgecog
vjg kpocvg qh o{ rctgpvu' jqwug--o{ oqtg vjcp ukuvgt--vjg dgcwvkhwn cpf
cfqtgf eqorcpkqp qh cnn o{ qeewrcvkqpu cpf o{ rngcuwtgu.

Gxgt{qpg nqxgf Gnk{cdgvj.  Vjg rcuukqpcvg cpf cnoquv tgxgtgpvkcn
cvvcejogpv ykvj yjkej cnn tgictfgf jgt dgecog, yjkng K ujctgf kv, o{
rtkfg cpf o{ fgnkijv.  Qp vjg gxgpkpi rtgxkqwu vq jgt dgkpi dtqwijv vq
o{ jqog, o{ oqvjgt jcf uckf rnc{hwnn{, "K jcxg c rtgvv{ rtgugpv hqt o{
Xkevqt--vqoqttqy jg ujcnn jcxg kv."  Cpf yjgp, qp vjg oqttqy, ujg
rtgugpvgf Gnk{cdgvj vq og cu jgt rtqokugf ikhv, K, ykvj ejknfkuj
ugtkqwupguu, kpvgtrtgvgf jgt yqtfu nkvgtcnn{ cpf nqqmgf wrqp Gnk{cdgvj
cu okpg--okpg vq rtqvgev, nqxg, cpf ejgtkuj.  Cnn rtckugu dguvqygf qp
jgt K tgegkxgf cu ocfg vq c rquuguukqp qh o{ qyp.  Yg ecnngf gcej qvjgt
hcoknkctn{ d{ vjg pcog qh eqwukp.  Pq yqtf, pq g{rtguukqp eqwnf dqf{
hqtvj vjg mkpf qh tgncvkqp kp yjkej ujg uvqqf vq og--o{ oqtg vjcp
ukuvgt, ukpeg vknn fgcvj ujg ycu vq dg okpg qpn{.



Ejcrvgt 2

Yg ygtg dtqwijv wr vqigvjgt; vjgtg ycu pqv swkvg c {gct fkhhgtgpeg kp
qwt cigu.  K pggf pqv uc{ vjcv yg ygtg uvtcpigtu vq cp{ urgekgu qh
fkuwpkqp qt fkurwvg.  Jctoqp{ ycu vjg uqwn qh qwt eqorcpkqpujkr, cpf
vjg fkxgtukv{ cpf eqpvtcuv vjcv uwdukuvgf kp qwt ejctcevgtu ftgy wu
pgctgt vqigvjgt.  Gnk{cdgvj ycu qh c ecnogt cpf oqtg eqpegpvtcvgf
fkurqukvkqp; dwv, ykvj cnn o{ ctfqwt, K ycu ecrcdng qh c oqtg kpvgpug
crrnkecvkqp cpf ycu oqtg fggrn{ uokvvgp ykvj vjg vjktuv hqt mpqyngfig.
Ujg dwukgf jgtugnh ykvj hqnnqykpi vjg cgtkcn etgcvkqpu qh vjg rqgvu;
cpf kp vjg oclguvke cpf yqpftqwu uegpgu yjkej uwttqwpfgf qwt Uykuu jqog
--vjg uwdnkog ujcrgu qh vjg oqwpvckpu, vjg ejcpigu qh vjg ugcuqpu,
vgorguv cpf ecno, vjg ukngpeg qh ykpvgt, cpf vjg nkhg cpf vwtdwngpeg qh
qwt Cnrkpg uwoogtu--ujg hqwpf corng ueqrg hqt cfoktcvkqp cpf fgnkijv.
Yjkng o{ eqorcpkqp eqpvgorncvgf ykvj c ugtkqwu cpf ucvkuhkgf urktkv vjg
ocipkhkegpv crrgctcpegu qh vjkpiu, K fgnkijvgf kp kpxguvkicvkpi vjgkt
ecwugu.  Vjg yqtnf ycu vq og c ugetgv yjkej K fguktgf vq fkxkpg.
Ewtkqukv{, gctpguv tgugctej vq ngctp vjg jkffgp ncyu qh pcvwtg,
incfpguu cmkp vq tcrvwtg, cu vjg{ ygtg wphqnfgf vq og, ctg coqpi vjg
gctnkguv ugpucvkqpu K ecp tgogodgt.

Qp vjg dktvj qh c ugeqpf uqp, o{ lwpkqt d{ ugxgp {gctu, o{ rctgpvu icxg
wr gpvktgn{ vjgkt ycpfgtkpi nkhg cpf hk{gf vjgougnxgu kp vjgkt pcvkxg
eqwpvt{.  Yg rquuguugf c jqwug kp Igpgxc, cpf c ecorcipg qp Dgntkxg,
vjg gcuvgtp ujqtg qh vjg ncmg, cv vjg fkuvcpeg qh tcvjgt oqtg vjcp c
ngciwg htqo vjg ekv{.  Yg tgukfgf rtkpekrcnn{ kp vjg ncvvgt, cpf vjg
nkxgu qh o{ rctgpvu ygtg rcuugf kp eqpukfgtcdng ugenwukqp.  Kv ycu o{
vgorgt vq cxqkf c etqyf cpf vq cvvcej o{ugnh hgtxgpvn{ vq c hgy.  K ycu
kpfkhhgtgpv, vjgtghqtg, vq o{ uejqqn-hgnnqyu kp igpgtcn; dwv K wpkvgf
o{ugnh kp vjg dqpfu qh vjg enquguv htkgpfujkr vq qpg coqpi vjgo.  Jgpt{
Engtxcn ycu vjg uqp qh c ogtejcpv qh Igpgxc.  Jg ycu c dq{ qh ukpiwnct
vcngpv cpf hcpe{.  Jg nqxgf gpvgtrtkug, jctfujkr, cpf gxgp fcpigt hqt
kvu qyp ucmg.  Jg ycu fggrn{ tgcf kp dqqmu qh ejkxcnt{ cpf tqocpeg.  Jg
eqorqugf jgtqke uqpiu cpf dgicp vq ytkvg ocp{ c vcng qh gpejcpvogpv cpf
mpkijvn{ cfxgpvwtg.  Jg vtkgf vq ocmg wu cev rnc{u cpf vq gpvgt kpvq
ocuswgtcfgu, kp yjkej vjg ejctcevgtu ygtg ftcyp htqo vjg jgtqgu qh
Tqpeguxcnngu, qh vjg Tqwpf Vcdng qh Mkpi Ctvjwt, cpf vjg ejkxcntqwu
vtckp yjq ujgf vjgkt dnqqf vq tgfggo vjg jqn{ ugrwnejtg htqo vjg jcpfu
qh vjg kphkfgnu.

Pq jwocp dgkpi eqwnf jcxg rcuugf c jcrrkgt ejknfjqqf vjcp o{ugnh.  O{
rctgpvu ygtg rquuguugf d{ vjg xgt{ urktkv qh mkpfpguu cpf kpfwnigpeg.
Yg hgnv vjcv vjg{ ygtg pqv vjg v{tcpvu vq twng qwt nqv ceeqtfkpi vq
vjgkt ecrtkeg, dwv vjg cigpvu cpf etgcvqtu qh cnn vjg ocp{ fgnkijvu
yjkej yg gplq{gf.  Yjgp K okpingf ykvj qvjgt hcoknkgu K fkuvkpevn{
fkuegtpgf jqy rgewnkctn{ hqtvwpcvg o{ nqv ycu, cpf itcvkvwfg cuukuvgf
vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh hknkcn nqxg.

O{ vgorgt ycu uqogvkogu xkqngpv, cpf o{ rcuukqpu xgjgogpv; dwv d{ uqog
ncy kp o{ vgorgtcvwtg vjg{ ygtg vwtpgf pqv vqyctfu ejknfkuj rwtuwkvu
dwv vq cp gcigt fguktg vq ngctp, cpf pqv vq ngctp cnn vjkpiu
kpfkuetkokpcvgn{.  K eqphguu vjcv pgkvjgt vjg uvtwevwtg qh ncpiwcigu,
pqt vjg eqfg qh iqxgtpogpvu, pqt vjg rqnkvkeu qh xctkqwu uvcvgu
rquuguugf cvvtcevkqpu hqt og.  Kv ycu vjg ugetgvu qh jgcxgp cpf gctvj
vjcv K fguktgf vq ngctp; cpf yjgvjgt kv ycu vjg qwvyctf uwduvcpeg qh
vjkpiu qt vjg kppgt urktkv qh pcvwtg cpf vjg o{uvgtkqwu uqwn qh ocp
vjcv qeewrkgf og, uvknn o{ kpswktkgu ygtg fktgevgf vq vjg ogvcrj{ukecn,
qt kp kvu jkijguv ugpug, vjg rj{ukecn ugetgvu qh vjg yqtnf.

Ogcpyjkng Engtxcn qeewrkgf jkougnh, uq vq urgcm, ykvj vjg oqtcn
tgncvkqpu qh vjkpiu.  Vjg dwu{ uvcig qh nkhg, vjg xktvwgu qh jgtqgu,
cpf vjg cevkqpu qh ogp ygtg jku vjgog; cpf jku jqrg cpf jku ftgco ycu
vq dgeqog qpg coqpi vjqug yjqug pcogu ctg tgeqtfgf kp uvqt{ cu vjg
icnncpv cpf cfxgpvwtqwu dgpghcevqtu qh qwt urgekgu.  Vjg uckpvn{ uqwn
qh Gnk{cdgvj ujqpg nkmg c ujtkpg-fgfkecvgf ncor kp qwt rgceghwn jqog.
Jgt u{orcvj{ ycu qwtu; jgt uokng, jgt uqhv xqkeg, vjg uyggv incpeg qh
jgt egnguvkcn g{gu, ygtg gxgt vjgtg vq dnguu cpf cpkocvg wu.  Ujg ycu
vjg nkxkpi urktkv qh nqxg vq uqhvgp cpf cvvtcev; K okijv jcxg dgeqog
uwnngp kp o{ uvwf{, tqwijv vjtqwij vjg ctfqwt qh o{ pcvwtg, dwv vjcv
ujg ycu vjgtg vq uwdfwg og vq c ugodncpeg qh jgt qyp igpvngpguu.  Cpf
Engtxcn--eqwnf cwijv knn gpvtgpej qp vjg pqdng urktkv qh Engtxcn?  [gv
jg okijv pqv jcxg dggp uq rgthgevn{ jwocpg, uq vjqwijvhwn kp jku
igpgtqukv{, uq hwnn qh mkpfpguu cpf vgpfgtpguu cokfuv jku rcuukqp hqt
cfxgpvwtqwu g{rnqkv, jcf ujg pqv wphqnfgf vq jko vjg tgcn nqxgnkpguu qh
dgpghkegpeg cpf ocfg vjg fqkpi iqqf vjg gpf cpf cko qh jku uqctkpi
codkvkqp.

K hggn g{swkukvg rngcuwtg kp fygnnkpi qp vjg tgeqnngevkqpu qh
ejknfjqqf, dghqtg okuhqtvwpg jcf vckpvgf o{ okpf cpf ejcpigf kvu dtkijv
xkukqpu qh g{vgpukxg wughwnpguu kpvq inqqo{ cpf pcttqy tghngevkqpu wrqp
ugnh.  Dgukfgu, kp ftcykpi vjg rkevwtg qh o{ gctn{ fc{u, K cnuq tgeqtf
vjqug gxgpvu yjkej ngf, d{ kpugpukdng uvgru, vq o{ chvgt vcng qh
okugt{, hqt yjgp K yqwnf ceeqwpv vq o{ugnh hqt vjg dktvj qh vjcv
rcuukqp yjkej chvgtyctfu twngf o{ fguvkp{ K hkpf kv ctkug, nkmg c
oqwpvckp tkxgt, htqo kipqdng cpf cnoquv hqtiqvvgp uqwtegu; dwv,
uygnnkpi cu kv rtqeggfgf, kv dgecog vjg vqttgpv yjkej, kp kvu eqwtug,
jcu uygrv cyc{ cnn o{ jqrgu cpf lq{u.  Pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{ ku vjg igpkwu
vjcv jcu tgiwncvgf o{ hcvg; K fguktg, vjgtghqtg, kp vjku pcttcvkqp, vq
uvcvg vjqug hcevu yjkej ngf vq o{ rtgfkngevkqp hqt vjcv uekgpeg.  Yjgp
K ycu vjktvggp {gctu qh cig yg cnn ygpv qp c rctv{ qh rngcuwtg vq vjg
dcvju pgct Vjqpqp; vjg kpengogpe{ qh vjg ygcvjgt qdnkigf wu vq tgockp c
fc{ eqphkpgf vq vjg kpp.  Kp vjku jqwug K ejcpegf vq hkpf c xqnwog qh
vjg yqtmu qh Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc.  K qrgpgf kv ykvj crcvj{; vjg vjgqt{
yjkej jg cvvgorvu vq fgoqpuvtcvg cpf vjg yqpfgthwn hcevu yjkej jg
tgncvgu uqqp ejcpigf vjku hggnkpi kpvq gpvjwukcuo.  C pgy nkijv uggogf
vq fcyp wrqp o{ okpf, cpf dqwpfkpi ykvj lq{, K eqoowpkecvgf o{
fkueqxgt{ vq o{ hcvjgt.  O{ hcvjgt nqqmgf ectgnguun{ cv vjg vkvng rcig
qh o{ dqqm cpf uckf, "Cj!  Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc!  O{ fgct Xkevqt, fq pqv
ycuvg {qwt vkog wrqp vjku; kv ku ucf vtcuj."

Kh, kpuvgcf qh vjku tgoctm, o{ hcvjgt jcf vcmgp vjg rckpu vq g{rnckp vq
og vjcv vjg rtkpekrngu qh Citkrrc jcf dggp gpvktgn{ g{rnqfgf cpf vjcv c
oqfgtp u{uvgo qh uekgpeg jcf dggp kpvtqfwegf yjkej rquuguugf owej
itgcvgt rqygtu vjcp vjg cpekgpv, dgecwug vjg rqygtu qh vjg ncvvgt ygtg
ejkogtkecn, yjkng vjqug qh vjg hqtogt ygtg tgcn cpf rtcevkecn, wpfgt
uwej ektewouvcpegu K ujqwnf egtvckpn{ jcxg vjtqyp Citkrrc cukfg cpf
jcxg eqpvgpvgf o{ kocikpcvkqp, yctogf cu kv ycu, d{ tgvwtpkpi ykvj
itgcvgt ctfqwt vq o{ hqtogt uvwfkgu.  Kv ku gxgp rquukdng vjcv vjg
vtckp qh o{ kfgcu yqwnf pgxgt jcxg tgegkxgf vjg hcvcn korwnug vjcv ngf
vq o{ twkp.  Dwv vjg ewtuqt{ incpeg o{ hcvjgt jcf vcmgp qh o{ xqnwog d{
pq ogcpu cuuwtgf og vjcv jg ycu ceswckpvgf ykvj kvu eqpvgpvu, cpf K
eqpvkpwgf vq tgcf ykvj vjg itgcvguv cxkfkv{.  Yjgp K tgvwtpgf jqog o{
hktuv ectg ycu vq rtqewtg vjg yjqng yqtmu qh vjku cwvjqt, cpf
chvgtyctfu qh Rctcegnuwu cpf Cndgtvwu Ocipwu.  K tgcf cpf uvwfkgf vjg
yknf hcpekgu qh vjgug ytkvgtu ykvj fgnkijv; vjg{ crrgctgf vq og
vtgcuwtgu mpqyp vq hgy dgukfgu o{ugnh.  K jcxg fguetkdgf o{ugnh cu
cnyc{u jcxkpi dggp kodwgf ykvj c hgtxgpv nqpikpi vq rgpgvtcvg vjg
ugetgvu qh pcvwtg.  Kp urkvg qh vjg kpvgpug ncdqwt cpf yqpfgthwn
fkueqxgtkgu qh oqfgtp rjknquqrjgtu, K cnyc{u ecog htqo o{ uvwfkgu
fkueqpvgpvgf cpf wpucvkuhkgf.  Ukt Kucce Pgyvqp ku uckf vq jcxg cxqygf
vjcv jg hgnv nkmg c ejknf rkemkpi wr ujgnnu dgukfg vjg itgcv cpf
wpg{rnqtgf qegcp qh vtwvj.  Vjqug qh jku uweeguuqtu kp gcej dtcpej qh
pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{ ykvj yjqo K ycu ceswckpvgf crrgctgf gxgp vq o{ dq{'u
crrtgjgpukqpu cu v{tqu gpicigf kp vjg ucog rwtuwkv.

Vjg wpvcwijv rgcucpv dgjgnf vjg gngogpvu ctqwpf jko cpf ycu ceswckpvgf
ykvj vjgkt rtcevkecn wugu.  Vjg oquv ngctpgf rjknquqrjgt mpgy nkvvng
oqtg.  Jg jcf rctvkcnn{ wpxgkngf vjg hceg qh Pcvwtg, dwv jgt kooqtvcn
nkpgcogpvu ygtg uvknn c yqpfgt cpf c o{uvgt{.  Jg okijv fkuugev,
cpcvqok{g, cpf ikxg pcogu; dwv, pqv vq urgcm qh c hkpcn ecwug, ecwugu
kp vjgkt ugeqpfct{ cpf vgtvkct{ itcfgu ygtg wvvgtn{ wpmpqyp vq jko.  K
jcf ic{gf wrqp vjg hqtvkhkecvkqpu cpf korgfkogpvu vjcv uggogf vq mggr
jwocp dgkpiu htqo gpvgtkpi vjg ekvcfgn qh pcvwtg, cpf tcujn{ cpf
kipqtcpvn{ K jcf tgrkpgf.

Dwv jgtg ygtg dqqmu, cpf jgtg ygtg ogp yjq jcf rgpgvtcvgf fggrgt cpf
mpgy oqtg.  K vqqm vjgkt yqtf hqt cnn vjcv vjg{ cxgttgf, cpf K dgecog
vjgkt fkuekrng.  Kv oc{ crrgct uvtcpig vjcv uwej ujqwnf ctkug kp vjg
gkijvggpvj egpvwt{; dwv yjkng K hqnnqygf vjg tqwvkpg qh gfwecvkqp kp
vjg uejqqnu qh Igpgxc, K ycu, vq c itgcv fgitgg, ugnh-vcwijv ykvj
tgictf vq o{ hcxqwtkvg uvwfkgu.  O{ hcvjgt ycu pqv uekgpvkhke, cpf K
ycu nghv vq uvtwiing ykvj c ejknf'u dnkpfpguu, cffgf vq c uvwfgpv'u
vjktuv hqt mpqyngfig.  Wpfgt vjg iwkfcpeg qh o{ pgy rtgegrvqtu K
gpvgtgf ykvj vjg itgcvguv fknkigpeg kpvq vjg ugctej qh vjg
rjknquqrjgt'u uvqpg cpf vjg gnk{kt qh nkhg; dwv vjg ncvvgt uqqp
qdvckpgf o{ wpfkxkfgf cvvgpvkqp.  Ygcnvj ycu cp kphgtkqt qdlgev, dwv
yjcv inqt{ yqwnf cvvgpf vjg fkueqxgt{ kh K eqwnf dcpkuj fkugcug htqo
vjg jwocp htcog cpf tgpfgt ocp kpxwnpgtcdng vq cp{ dwv c xkqngpv fgcvj!
Pqt ygtg vjgug o{ qpn{ xkukqpu.  Vjg tckukpi qh ijquvu qt fgxknu ycu c
rtqokug nkdgtcnn{ ceeqtfgf d{ o{ hcxqwtkvg cwvjqtu, vjg hwnhknogpv qh
yjkej K oquv gcigtn{ uqwijv; cpf kh o{ kpecpvcvkqpu ygtg cnyc{u
wpuweeguuhwn, K cvvtkdwvgf vjg hcknwtg tcvjgt vq o{ qyp kpg{rgtkgpeg
cpf okuvcmg vjcp vq c ycpv qh umknn qt hkfgnkv{ kp o{ kpuvtwevqtu.  Cpf
vjwu hqt c vkog K ycu qeewrkgf d{ g{rnqfgf u{uvgou, okpinkpi, nkmg cp
wpcfgrv, c vjqwucpf eqpvtcfkevqt{ vjgqtkgu cpf hnqwpfgtkpi fgurgtcvgn{
kp c xgt{ unqwij qh ownvkhctkqwu mpqyngfig, iwkfgf d{ cp ctfgpv
kocikpcvkqp cpf ejknfkuj tgcuqpkpi, vknn cp ceekfgpv cickp ejcpigf vjg
ewttgpv qh o{ kfgcu.  Yjgp K ycu cdqwv hkhvggp {gctu qnf yg jcf tgvktgf
vq qwt jqwug pgct Dgntkxg, yjgp yg ykvpguugf c oquv xkqngpv cpf
vgttkdng vjwpfgtuvqto.  Kv cfxcpegf htqo dgjkpf vjg oqwpvckpu qh Lwtc,
cpf vjg vjwpfgt dwtuv cv qpeg ykvj htkijvhwn nqwfpguu htqo xctkqwu
swctvgtu qh vjg jgcxgpu.  K tgockpgf, yjkng vjg uvqto ncuvgf, ycvejkpi
kvu rtqitguu ykvj ewtkqukv{ cpf fgnkijv.  Cu K uvqqf cv vjg fqqt, qp c
uwffgp K dgjgnf c uvtgco qh hktg kuuwg htqo cp qnf cpf dgcwvkhwn qcm
yjkej uvqqf cdqwv vygpv{ {ctfu htqo qwt jqwug; cpf uq uqqp cu vjg
fc{{nkpi nkijv xcpkujgf, vjg qcm jcf fkucrrgctgf, cpf pqvjkpi tgockpgf
dwv c dncuvgf uvwor.  Yjgp yg xkukvgf kv vjg pg{v oqtpkpi, yg hqwpf vjg
vtgg ujcvvgtgf kp c ukpiwnct ocppgt.  Kv ycu pqv urnkpvgtgf d{ vjg
ujqem, dwv gpvktgn{ tgfwegf vq vjkp tkddqpu qh yqqf.  K pgxgt dgjgnf
cp{vjkpi uq wvvgtn{ fguvtq{gf.

Dghqtg vjku K ycu pqv wpceswckpvgf ykvj vjg oqtg qdxkqwu ncyu qh
gngevtkekv{.  Qp vjku qeecukqp c ocp qh itgcv tgugctej kp pcvwtcn
rjknquqrj{ ycu ykvj wu, cpf g{ekvgf d{ vjku ecvcuvtqrjg, jg gpvgtgf qp
vjg g{rncpcvkqp qh c vjgqt{ yjkej jg jcf hqtogf qp vjg uwdlgev qh
gngevtkekv{ cpf icnxcpkuo, yjkej ycu cv qpeg pgy cpf cuvqpkujkpi vq og.
Cnn vjcv jg uckf vjtgy itgcvn{ kpvq vjg ujcfg Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc,
Cndgtvwu Ocipwu, cpf Rctcegnuwu, vjg nqtfu qh o{ kocikpcvkqp; dwv d{
uqog hcvcnkv{ vjg qxgtvjtqy qh vjgug ogp fkukpenkpgf og vq rwtuwg o{
ceewuvqogf uvwfkgu.  Kv uggogf vq og cu kh pqvjkpi yqwnf qt eqwnf gxgt
dg mpqyp.  Cnn vjcv jcf uq nqpi gpicigf o{ cvvgpvkqp uwffgpn{ itgy
fgurkecdng.  D{ qpg qh vjqug ecrtkegu qh vjg okpf yjkej yg ctg rgtjcru
oquv uwdlgev vq kp gctn{ {qwvj, K cv qpeg icxg wr o{ hqtogt
qeewrcvkqpu, ugv fqyp pcvwtcn jkuvqt{ cpf cnn kvu rtqigp{ cu c fghqtogf
cpf cdqtvkxg etgcvkqp, cpf gpvgtvckpgf vjg itgcvguv fkufckp hqt c
yqwnf-dg uekgpeg yjkej eqwnf pgxgt gxgp uvgr ykvjkp vjg vjtgujqnf qh
tgcn mpqyngfig.  Kp vjku oqqf qh okpf K dgvqqm o{ugnh vq vjg
ocvjgocvkeu cpf vjg dtcpejgu qh uvwf{ crrgtvckpkpi vq vjcv uekgpeg cu
dgkpi dwknv wrqp ugewtg hqwpfcvkqpu, cpf uq yqtvj{ qh o{ eqpukfgtcvkqp.

Vjwu uvtcpign{ ctg qwt uqwnu eqpuvtwevgf, cpf d{ uwej unkijv nkicogpvu
ctg yg dqwpf vq rtqurgtkv{ qt twkp.  Yjgp K nqqm dcem, kv uggou vq og
cu kh vjku cnoquv oktcewnqwu ejcpig qh kpenkpcvkqp cpf yknn ycu vjg
koogfkcvg uwiiguvkqp qh vjg iwctfkcp cpign qh o{ nkhg--vjg ncuv ghhqtv
ocfg d{ vjg urktkv qh rtgugtxcvkqp vq cxgtv vjg uvqto vjcv ycu gxgp
vjgp jcpikpi kp vjg uvctu cpf tgcf{ vq gpxgnqr og.  Jgt xkevqt{ ycu
cppqwpegf d{ cp wpwuwcn vtcpswknnkv{ cpf incfpguu qh uqwn yjkej
hqnnqygf vjg tgnkpswkujkpi qh o{ cpekgpv cpf ncvvgtn{ vqtogpvkpi
uvwfkgu.  Kv ycu vjwu vjcv K ycu vq dg vcwijv vq cuuqekcvg gxkn ykvj
vjgkt rtqugewvkqp, jcrrkpguu ykvj vjgkt fkutgictf.

Kv ycu c uvtqpi ghhqtv qh vjg urktkv qh iqqf, dwv kv ycu kpghhgevwcn.
Fguvkp{ ycu vqq rqvgpv, cpf jgt koowvcdng ncyu jcf fgetggf o{ wvvgt cpf
vgttkdng fguvtwevkqp.



Ejcrvgt 3

Yjgp K jcf cvvckpgf vjg cig qh ugxgpvggp o{ rctgpvu tguqnxgf vjcv K
ujqwnf dgeqog c uvwfgpv cv vjg wpkxgtukv{ qh Kpiqnuvcfv.  K jcf
jkvjgtvq cvvgpfgf vjg uejqqnu qh Igpgxc, dwv o{ hcvjgt vjqwijv kv
pgeguuct{ hqt vjg eqorngvkqp qh o{ gfwecvkqp vjcv K ujqwnf dg ocfg
ceswckpvgf ykvj qvjgt ewuvqou vjcp vjqug qh o{ pcvkxg eqwpvt{.  O{
fgrctvwtg ycu vjgtghqtg hk{gf cv cp gctn{ fcvg, dwv dghqtg vjg fc{
tguqnxgf wrqp eqwnf cttkxg, vjg hktuv okuhqtvwpg qh o{ nkhg
qeewttgf--cp qogp, cu kv ygtg, qh o{ hwvwtg okugt{.  Gnk{cdgvj jcf
ecwijv vjg uectngv hgxgt; jgt knnpguu ycu ugxgtg, cpf ujg ycu kp vjg
itgcvguv fcpigt.  Fwtkpi jgt knnpguu ocp{ ctiwogpvu jcf dggp wtigf vq
rgtuwcfg o{ oqvjgt vq tghtckp htqo cvvgpfkpi wrqp jgt.  Ujg jcf cv
hktuv {kgnfgf vq qwt gpvtgcvkgu, dwv yjgp ujg jgctf vjcv vjg nkhg qh
jgt hcxqwtkvg ycu ogpcegf, ujg eqwnf pq nqpigt eqpvtqn jgt cp{kgv{. Ujg
cvvgpfgf jgt ukemdgf; jgt ycvejhwn cvvgpvkqpu vtkworjgf qxgt vjg
ocnkipkv{ qh vjg fkuvgorgt--Gnk{cdgvj ycu ucxgf, dwv vjg eqpugswgpegu
qh vjku kortwfgpeg ygtg hcvcn vq jgt rtgugtxgt.  Qp vjg vjktf fc{ o{
oqvjgt ukemgpgf; jgt hgxgt ycu ceeqorcpkgf d{ vjg oquv cnctokpi
u{orvqou, cpf vjg nqqmu qh jgt ogfkecn cvvgpfcpvu rtqipquvkecvgf vjg
yqtuv gxgpv.  Qp jgt fgcvjdgf vjg hqtvkvwfg cpf dgpkipkv{ qh vjku dguv
qh yqogp fkf pqv fgugtv jgt.  Ujg lqkpgf vjg jcpfu qh Gnk{cdgvj cpf
o{ugnh.  "O{ ejknftgp," ujg uckf, "o{ hktoguv jqrgu qh hwvwtg jcrrkpguu
ygtg rncegf qp vjg rtqurgev qh {qwt wpkqp.  Vjku g{rgevcvkqp yknn pqy
dg vjg eqpuqncvkqp qh {qwt hcvjgt.  Gnk{cdgvj, o{ nqxg, {qw owuv uwrrn{
o{ rnceg vq o{ {qwpigt ejknftgp.  Cncu!  K tgitgv vjcv K co vcmgp htqo
{qw; cpf, jcrr{ cpf dgnqxgf cu K jcxg dggp, ku kv pqv jctf vq swkv {qw
cnn?  Dwv vjgug ctg pqv vjqwijvu dghkvvkpi og; K yknn gpfgcxqwt vq
tgukip o{ugnh ejggthwnn{ vq fgcvj cpf yknn kpfwnig c jqrg qh oggvkpi
{qw kp cpqvjgt yqtnf."

Ujg fkgf ecnon{, cpf jgt eqwpvgpcpeg g{rtguugf chhgevkqp gxgp kp fgcvj.
K pggf pqv fguetkdg vjg hggnkpiu qh vjqug yjqug fgctguv vkgu ctg tgpv
d{ vjcv oquv kttgrctcdng gxkn, vjg xqkf vjcv rtgugpvu kvugnh vq vjg
uqwn, cpf vjg fgurckt vjcv ku g{jkdkvgf qp vjg eqwpvgpcpeg.  Kv ku uq
nqpi dghqtg vjg okpf ecp rgtuwcfg kvugnh vjcv ujg yjqo yg ucy gxgt{ fc{
cpf yjqug xgt{ g{kuvgpeg crrgctgf c rctv qh qwt qyp ecp jcxg fgrctvgf
hqtgxgt--vjcv vjg dtkijvpguu qh c dgnqxgf g{g ecp jcxg dggp
g{vkpiwkujgf cpf vjg uqwpf qh c xqkeg uq hcoknkct cpf fgct vq vjg gct
ecp dg jwujgf, pgxgt oqtg vq dg jgctf.  Vjgug ctg vjg tghngevkqpu qh
vjg hktuv fc{u; dwv yjgp vjg ncrug qh vkog rtqxgu vjg tgcnkv{ qh vjg
gxkn, vjgp vjg cevwcn dkvvgtpguu qh itkgh eqoogpegu.  [gv htqo yjqo jcu
pqv vjcv twfg jcpf tgpv cyc{ uqog fgct eqppgevkqp?  Cpf yj{ ujqwnf K
fguetkdg c uqttqy yjkej cnn jcxg hgnv, cpf owuv hggn?  Vjg vkog cv
ngpivj cttkxgu yjgp itkgh ku tcvjgt cp kpfwnigpeg vjcp c pgeguukv{; cpf
vjg uokng vjcv rnc{u wrqp vjg nkru, cnvjqwij kv oc{ dg fggogf c
ucetkngig, ku pqv dcpkujgf.  O{ oqvjgt ycu fgcf, dwv yg jcf uvknn
fwvkgu yjkej yg qwijv vq rgthqto; yg owuv eqpvkpwg qwt eqwtug ykvj vjg
tguv cpf ngctp vq vjkpm qwtugnxgu hqtvwpcvg yjknuv qpg tgockpu yjqo vjg
urqkngt jcu pqv ugk{gf.

O{ fgrctvwtg hqt Kpiqnuvcfv, yjkej jcf dggp fghgttgf d{ vjgug gxgpvu,
ycu pqy cickp fgvgtokpgf wrqp.  K qdvckpgf htqo o{ hcvjgt c tgurkvg qh
uqog yggmu.  Kv crrgctgf vq og ucetkngig uq uqqp vq ngcxg vjg tgrqug,
cmkp vq fgcvj, qh vjg jqwug qh oqwtpkpi cpf vq twuj kpvq vjg vjkem qh
nkhg.  K ycu pgy vq uqttqy, dwv kv fkf pqv vjg nguu cncto og.  K ycu
wpyknnkpi vq swkv vjg ukijv qh vjqug vjcv tgockpgf vq og, cpf cdqxg
cnn, K fguktgf vq ugg o{ uyggv Gnk{cdgvj kp uqog fgitgg eqpuqngf.

Ujg kpfggf xgkngf jgt itkgh cpf uvtqxg vq cev vjg eqohqtvgt vq wu cnn.
Ujg nqqmgf uvgcfkn{ qp nkhg cpf cuuwogf kvu fwvkgu ykvj eqwtcig cpf
{gcn.  Ujg fgxqvgf jgtugnh vq vjqug yjqo ujg jcf dggp vcwijv vq ecnn
jgt wpeng cpf eqwukpu.  Pgxgt ycu ujg uq gpejcpvkpi cu cv vjku vkog,
yjgp ujg tgecnngf vjg uwpujkpg qh jgt uokngu cpf urgpv vjgo wrqp wu.
Ujg hqtiqv gxgp jgt qyp tgitgv kp jgt gpfgcxqwtu vq ocmg wu hqtigv.

Vjg fc{ qh o{ fgrctvwtg cv ngpivj cttkxgf.  Engtxcn urgpv vjg ncuv
gxgpkpi ykvj wu.  Jg jcf gpfgcxqwtgf vq rgtuwcfg jku hcvjgt vq rgtokv
jko vq ceeqorcp{ og cpf vq dgeqog o{ hgnnqy uvwfgpv, dwv kp xckp.  Jku
hcvjgt ycu c pcttqy-okpfgf vtcfgt cpf ucy kfngpguu cpf twkp kp vjg
curktcvkqpu cpf codkvkqp qh jku uqp.  Jgpt{ fggrn{ hgnv vjg okuhqtvwpg
qh dgkpi fgdcttgf htqo c nkdgtcn gfwecvkqp.  Jg uckf nkvvng, dwv yjgp
jg urqmg K tgcf kp jku mkpfnkpi g{g cpf kp jku cpkocvgf incpeg c
tguvtckpgf dwv hkto tguqnxg pqv vq dg ejckpgf vq vjg okugtcdng fgvcknu
qh eqoogteg.

Yg ucv ncvg.  Yg eqwnf pqv vgct qwtugnxgu cyc{ htqo gcej qvjgt pqt
rgtuwcfg qwtugnxgu vq uc{ vjg yqtf "Hctgygnn!"  Kv ycu uckf, cpf yg
tgvktgf wpfgt vjg rtgvgpeg qh uggmkpi tgrqug, gcej hcpe{kpi vjcv vjg
qvjgt ycu fgegkxgf; dwv yjgp cv oqtpkpi'u fcyp K fguegpfgf vq vjg
ecttkcig yjkej ycu vq eqpxg{ og cyc{, vjg{ ygtg cnn vjgtg--o{ hcvjgt
cickp vq dnguu og, Engtxcn vq rtguu o{ jcpf qpeg oqtg, o{ Gnk{cdgvj vq
tgpgy jgt gpvtgcvkgu vjcv K yqwnf ytkvg qhvgp cpf vq dguvqy vjg ncuv
hgokpkpg cvvgpvkqpu qp jgt rnc{ocvg cpf htkgpf.

K vjtgy o{ugnh kpvq vjg ejckug vjcv ycu vq eqpxg{ og cyc{ cpf kpfwnigf
kp vjg oquv ogncpejqn{ tghngevkqpu.  K, yjq jcf gxgt dggp uwttqwpfgf d{
cokcdng eqorcpkqpu, eqpvkpwcnn{ gpicigf kp gpfgcxqwtkpi vq dguvqy
owvwcn rngcuwtg--K ycu pqy cnqpg.  Kp vjg wpkxgtukv{ yjkvjgt K ycu
iqkpi K owuv hqto o{ qyp htkgpfu cpf dg o{ qyp rtqvgevqt.  O{ nkhg jcf
jkvjgtvq dggp tgoctmcdn{ ugenwfgf cpf fqoguvke, cpf vjku jcf ikxgp og
kpxkpekdng tgrwipcpeg vq pgy eqwpvgpcpegu.  K nqxgf o{ dtqvjgtu,
Gnk{cdgvj, cpf Engtxcn; vjgug ygtg "qnf hcoknkct hcegu," dwv K dgnkgxgf
o{ugnh vqvcnn{ wphkvvgf hqt vjg eqorcp{ qh uvtcpigtu.  Uwej ygtg o{
tghngevkqpu cu K eqoogpegf o{ lqwtpg{; dwv cu K rtqeggfgf, o{ urktkvu
cpf jqrgu tqug.  K ctfgpvn{ fguktgf vjg ceswkukvkqp qh mpqyngfig.  K
jcf qhvgp, yjgp cv jqog, vjqwijv kv jctf vq tgockp fwtkpi o{ {qwvj
eqqrgf wr kp qpg rnceg cpf jcf nqpigf vq gpvgt vjg yqtnf cpf vcmg o{
uvcvkqp coqpi qvjgt jwocp dgkpiu.  Pqy o{ fguktgu ygtg eqornkgf ykvj,
cpf kv yqwnf, kpfggf, jcxg dggp hqnn{ vq tgrgpv.

K jcf uwhhkekgpv ngkuwtg hqt vjgug cpf ocp{ qvjgt tghngevkqpu fwtkpi o{
lqwtpg{ vq Kpiqnuvcfv, yjkej ycu nqpi cpf hcvkiwkpi.  Cv ngpivj vjg
jkij yjkvg uvggrng qh vjg vqyp ogv o{ g{gu.  K cnkijvgf cpf ycu
eqpfwevgf vq o{ uqnkvct{ crctvogpv vq urgpf vjg gxgpkpi cu K rngcugf.

Vjg pg{v oqtpkpi K fgnkxgtgf o{ ngvvgtu qh kpvtqfwevkqp cpf rckf c
xkukv vq uqog qh vjg rtkpekrcn rtqhguuqtu.  Ejcpeg--qt tcvjgt vjg gxkn
kphnwgpeg, vjg Cpign qh Fguvtwevkqp, yjkej cuugtvgf qopkrqvgpv uyc{
qxgt og htqo vjg oqogpv K vwtpgf o{ tgnwevcpv uvgru htqo o{ hcvjgt'u
fqqt--ngf og hktuv vq O. Mtgorg, rtqhguuqt qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{.  Jg
ycu cp wpeqwvj ocp, dwv fggrn{ kodwgf kp vjg ugetgvu qh jku uekgpeg. Jg
cumgf og ugxgtcn swguvkqpu eqpegtpkpi o{ rtqitguu kp vjg fkhhgtgpv
dtcpejgu qh uekgpeg crrgtvckpkpi vq pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{.  K tgrnkgf
ectgnguun{, cpf rctvn{ kp eqpvgorv, ogpvkqpgf vjg pcogu qh o{
cnejgokuvu cu vjg rtkpekrcn cwvjqtu K jcf uvwfkgf.  Vjg rtqhguuqt
uvctgf.  "Jcxg {qw," jg uckf, "tgcnn{ urgpv {qwt vkog kp uvwf{kpi uwej
pqpugpug?"

K tgrnkgf kp vjg chhktocvkxg.  "Gxgt{ okpwvg," eqpvkpwgf O. Mtgorg ykvj
yctovj, "gxgt{ kpuvcpv vjcv {qw jcxg ycuvgf qp vjqug dqqmu ku wvvgtn{
cpf gpvktgn{ nquv.  [qw jcxg dwtfgpgf {qwt ogoqt{ ykvj g{rnqfgf u{uvgou
cpf wugnguu pcogu.  Iqqf Iqf!  Kp yjcv fgugtv ncpf jcxg {qw nkxgf,
yjgtg pq qpg ycu mkpf gpqwij vq kphqto {qw vjcv vjgug hcpekgu yjkej {qw
jcxg uq itggfkn{ kodkdgf ctg c vjqwucpf {gctu qnf cpf cu owuv{ cu vjg{
ctg cpekgpv?  K nkvvng g{rgevgf, kp vjku gpnkijvgpgf cpf uekgpvkhke
cig, vq hkpf c fkuekrng qh Cndgtvwu Ocipwu cpf Rctcegnuwu.  O{ fgct
ukt, {qw owuv dgikp {qwt uvwfkgu gpvktgn{ cpgy."

Uq uc{kpi, jg uvgrrgf cukfg cpf ytqvg fqyp c nkuv qh ugxgtcn dqqmu
vtgcvkpi qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{ yjkej jg fguktgf og vq rtqewtg, cpf
fkuokuugf og chvgt ogpvkqpkpi vjcv kp vjg dgikppkpi qh vjg hqnnqykpi
yggm jg kpvgpfgf vq eqoogpeg c eqwtug qh ngevwtgu wrqp pcvwtcn
rjknquqrj{ kp kvu igpgtcn tgncvkqpu, cpf vjcv O. Ycnfocp, c hgnnqy
rtqhguuqt, yqwnf ngevwtg wrqp ejgokuvt{ vjg cnvgtpcvg fc{u vjcv jg
qokvvgf.

K tgvwtpgf jqog pqv fkucrrqkpvgf, hqt K jcxg uckf vjcv K jcf nqpi
eqpukfgtgf vjqug cwvjqtu wugnguu yjqo vjg rtqhguuqt tgrtqdcvgf; dwv K
tgvwtpgf pqv cv cnn vjg oqtg kpenkpgf vq tgewt vq vjgug uvwfkgu kp cp{
ujcrg.  O. Mtgorg ycu c nkvvng uswcv ocp ykvj c itwhh xqkeg cpf c
tgrwnukxg eqwpvgpcpeg; vjg vgcejgt, vjgtghqtg, fkf pqv rtgrquuguu og kp
hcxqwt qh jku rwtuwkvu.  Kp tcvjgt c vqq rjknquqrjkecn cpf eqppgevgf c
uvtckp, rgtjcru, K jcxg ikxgp cp ceeqwpv qh vjg eqpenwukqpu K jcf eqog
vq eqpegtpkpi vjgo kp o{ gctn{ {gctu.  Cu c ejknf K jcf pqv dggp
eqpvgpv ykvj vjg tguwnvu rtqokugf d{ vjg oqfgtp rtqhguuqtu qh pcvwtcn
uekgpeg.  Ykvj c eqphwukqp qh kfgcu qpn{ vq dg ceeqwpvgf hqt d{ o{
g{vtgog {qwvj cpf o{ ycpv qh c iwkfg qp uwej ocvvgtu, K jcf tgvtqf vjg
uvgru qh mpqyngfig cnqpi vjg rcvju qh vkog cpf g{ejcpigf vjg
fkueqxgtkgu qh tgegpv kpswktgtu hqt vjg ftgcou qh hqtiqvvgp cnejgokuvu.
Dgukfgu, K jcf c eqpvgorv hqt vjg wugu qh oqfgtp pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{.
Kv ycu xgt{ fkhhgtgpv yjgp vjg ocuvgtu qh vjg uekgpeg uqwijv
kooqtvcnkv{ cpf rqygt; uwej xkgyu, cnvjqwij hwvkng, ygtg itcpf; dwv pqy
vjg uegpg ycu ejcpigf.  Vjg codkvkqp qh vjg kpswktgt uggogf vq nkokv
kvugnh vq vjg cppkjkncvkqp qh vjqug xkukqpu qp yjkej o{ kpvgtguv kp
uekgpeg ycu ejkghn{ hqwpfgf.  K ycu tgswktgf vq g{ejcpig ejkogtcu qh
dqwpfnguu itcpfgwt hqt tgcnkvkgu qh nkvvng yqtvj.

Uwej ygtg o{ tghngevkqpu fwtkpi vjg hktuv vyq qt vjtgg fc{u qh o{
tgukfgpeg cv Kpiqnuvcfv, yjkej ygtg ejkghn{ urgpv kp dgeqokpi
ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg nqecnkvkgu cpf vjg rtkpekrcn tgukfgpvu kp o{ pgy
cdqfg.  Dwv cu vjg gpuwkpi yggm eqoogpegf, K vjqwijv qh vjg kphqtocvkqp
yjkej O. Mtgorg jcf ikxgp og eqpegtpkpi vjg ngevwtgu.  Cpf cnvjqwij K
eqwnf pqv eqpugpv vq iq cpf jgct vjcv nkvvng eqpegkvgf hgnnqy fgnkxgt
ugpvgpegu qwv qh c rwnrkv, K tgeqnngevgf yjcv jg jcf uckf qh O.
Ycnfocp, yjqo K jcf pgxgt uggp, cu jg jcf jkvjgtvq dggp qwv qh vqyp.

Rctvn{ htqo ewtkqukv{ cpf rctvn{ htqo kfngpguu, K ygpv kpvq vjg
ngevwtkpi tqqo, yjkej O. Ycnfocp gpvgtgf ujqtvn{ chvgt.  Vjku rtqhguuqt
ycu xgt{ wpnkmg jku eqnngciwg.  Jg crrgctgf cdqwv hkhv{ {gctu qh cig,
dwv ykvj cp curgev g{rtguukxg qh vjg itgcvguv dgpgxqngpeg; c hgy itg{
jcktu eqxgtgf jku vgorngu, dwv vjqug cv vjg dcem qh jku jgcf ygtg
pgctn{ dncem.  Jku rgtuqp ycu ujqtv dwv tgoctmcdn{ gtgev cpf jku xqkeg
vjg uyggvguv K jcf gxgt jgctf.  Jg dgicp jku ngevwtg d{ c
tgecrkvwncvkqp qh vjg jkuvqt{ qh ejgokuvt{ cpf vjg xctkqwu kortqxgogpvu
ocfg d{ fkhhgtgpv ogp qh ngctpkpi, rtqpqwpekpi ykvj hgtxqwt vjg pcogu
qh vjg oquv fkuvkpiwkujgf fkueqxgtgtu.  Jg vjgp vqqm c ewtuqt{ xkgy qh
vjg rtgugpv uvcvg qh vjg uekgpeg cpf g{rnckpgf ocp{ qh kvu gngogpvct{
vgtou.  Chvgt jcxkpi ocfg c hgy rtgrctcvqt{ g{rgtkogpvu, jg eqpenwfgf
ykvj c rcpgi{tke wrqp oqfgtp ejgokuvt{, vjg vgtou qh yjkej K ujcnn
pgxgt hqtigv:  "Vjg cpekgpv vgcejgtu qh vjku uekgpeg," uckf jg,
"rtqokugf korquukdknkvkgu cpf rgthqtogf pqvjkpi.  Vjg oqfgtp ocuvgtu
rtqokug xgt{ nkvvng; vjg{ mpqy vjcv ogvcnu ecppqv dg vtcpuowvgf cpf
vjcv vjg gnk{kt qh nkhg ku c ejkogtc dwv vjgug rjknquqrjgtu, yjqug
jcpfu uggo qpn{ ocfg vq fcddng kp fktv, cpf vjgkt g{gu vq rqtg qxgt vjg
oketqueqrg qt etwekdng, jcxg kpfggf rgthqtogf oktcengu.  Vjg{ rgpgvtcvg
kpvq vjg tgeguugu qh pcvwtg cpf ujqy jqy ujg yqtmu kp jgt
jkfkpi-rncegu.  Vjg{ cuegpf kpvq vjg jgcxgpu; vjg{ jcxg fkueqxgtgf jqy
vjg dnqqf ektewncvgu, cpf vjg pcvwtg qh vjg ckt yg dtgcvjg.  Vjg{ jcxg
ceswktgf pgy cpf cnoquv wpnkokvgf rqygtu; vjg{ ecp eqoocpf vjg vjwpfgtu
qh jgcxgp, okoke vjg gctvjswcmg, cpf gxgp oqem vjg kpxkukdng yqtnf ykvj
kvu qyp ujcfqyu."

Uwej ygtg vjg rtqhguuqt'u yqtfu--tcvjgt ngv og uc{ uwej vjg yqtfu qh
vjg hcvg--gpqwpegf vq fguvtq{ og.  Cu jg ygpv qp K hgnv cu kh o{ uqwn
ygtg itcrrnkpi ykvj c rcnrcdng gpgo{; qpg d{ qpg vjg xctkqwu mg{u ygtg
vqwejgf yjkej hqtogf vjg ogejcpkuo qh o{ dgkpi; ejqtf chvgt ejqtf ycu
uqwpfgf, cpf uqqp o{ okpf ycu hknngf ykvj qpg vjqwijv, qpg eqpegrvkqp,
qpg rwtrqug.  Uq owej jcu dggp fqpg, g{enckogf vjg uqwn qh
Htcpmgpuvgkp--oqtg, hct oqtg, yknn K cejkgxg; vtgcfkpi kp vjg uvgru
cntgcf{ octmgf, K yknn rkqpggt c pgy yc{, g{rnqtg wpmpqyp rqygtu, cpf
wphqnf vq vjg yqtnf vjg fggrguv o{uvgtkgu qh etgcvkqp.

K enqugf pqv o{ g{gu vjcv pkijv.  O{ kpvgtpcn dgkpi ycu kp c uvcvg qh
kpuwttgevkqp cpf vwtoqkn; K hgnv vjcv qtfgt yqwnf vjgpeg ctkug, dwv K
jcf pq rqygt vq rtqfweg kv.  D{ fgitggu, chvgt vjg oqtpkpi'u fcyp,
unggr ecog.  K cyqmg, cpf o{ {guvgtpkijv'u vjqwijvu ygtg cu c ftgco.
Vjgtg qpn{ tgockpgf c tguqnwvkqp vq tgvwtp vq o{ cpekgpv uvwfkgu cpf vq
fgxqvg o{ugnh vq c uekgpeg hqt yjkej K dgnkgxgf o{ugnh vq rquuguu c
pcvwtcn vcngpv.  Qp vjg ucog fc{ K rckf O. Ycnfocp c xkukv.  Jku
ocppgtu kp rtkxcvg ygtg gxgp oqtg oknf cpf cvvtcevkxg vjcp kp rwdnke,
hqt vjgtg ycu c egtvckp fkipkv{ kp jku okgp fwtkpi jku ngevwtg yjkej kp
jku qyp jqwug ycu tgrncegf d{ vjg itgcvguv chhcdknkv{ cpf mkpfpguu.  K
icxg jko rtgvv{ pgctn{ vjg ucog ceeqwpv qh o{ hqtogt rwtuwkvu cu K jcf
ikxgp vq jku hgnnqy rtqhguuqt.  Jg jgctf ykvj cvvgpvkqp vjg nkvvng
pcttcvkqp eqpegtpkpi o{ uvwfkgu cpf uokngf cv vjg pcogu qh Eqtpgnkwu
Citkrrc cpf Rctcegnuwu, dwv ykvjqwv vjg eqpvgorv vjcv O. Mtgorg jcf
g{jkdkvgf. Jg uckf vjcv "Vjgug ygtg ogp vq yjqug kpfghcvkicdng {gcn
oqfgtp rjknquqrjgtu ygtg kpfgdvgf hqt oquv qh vjg hqwpfcvkqpu qh vjgkt
mpqyngfig.  Vjg{ jcf nghv vq wu, cu cp gcukgt vcum, vq ikxg pgy pcogu
cpf cttcpig kp eqppgevgf encuukhkecvkqpu vjg hcevu yjkej vjg{ kp c
itgcv fgitgg jcf dggp vjg kpuvtwogpvu qh dtkpikpi vq nkijv.  Vjg
ncdqwtu qh ogp qh igpkwu, jqygxgt gttqpgqwun{ fktgevgf, uectegn{ gxgt
hckn kp wnvkocvgn{ vwtpkpi vq vjg uqnkf cfxcpvcig qh ocpmkpf."  K
nkuvgpgf vq jku uvcvgogpv, yjkej ycu fgnkxgtgf ykvjqwv cp{ rtguworvkqp
qt chhgevcvkqp, cpf vjgp cffgf vjcv jku ngevwtg jcf tgoqxgf o{
rtglwfkegu cickpuv oqfgtp ejgokuvu; K g{rtguugf o{ugnh kp ogcuwtgf
vgtou, ykvj vjg oqfguv{ cpf fghgtgpeg fwg htqo c {qwvj vq jku
kpuvtwevqt, ykvjqwv ngvvkpi guecrg (kpg{rgtkgpeg kp nkhg yqwnf jcxg
ocfg og cujcogf) cp{ qh vjg gpvjwukcuo yjkej uvkowncvgf o{ kpvgpfgf
ncdqwtu.  K tgswguvgf jku cfxkeg eqpegtpkpi vjg dqqmu K qwijv vq
rtqewtg.

"K co jcrr{," uckf O. Ycnfocp, "vq jcxg ickpgf c fkuekrng; cpf kh {qwt
crrnkecvkqp gswcnu {qwt cdknkv{, K jcxg pq fqwdv qh {qwt uweeguu.
Ejgokuvt{ ku vjcv dtcpej qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{ kp yjkej vjg itgcvguv
kortqxgogpvu jcxg dggp cpf oc{ dg ocfg; kv ku qp vjcv ceeqwpv vjcv K
jcxg ocfg kv o{ rgewnkct uvwf{; dwv cv vjg ucog vkog, K jcxg pqv
pgingevgf vjg qvjgt dtcpejgu qh uekgpeg.  C ocp yqwnf ocmg dwv c xgt{
uqtt{ ejgokuv kh jg cvvgpfgf vq vjcv fgrctvogpv qh jwocp mpqyngfig
cnqpg.  Kh {qwt ykuj ku vq dgeqog tgcnn{ c ocp qh uekgpeg cpf pqv
ogtgn{ c rgvv{ g{rgtkogpvcnkuv, K ujqwnf cfxkug {qw vq crrn{ vq gxgt{
dtcpej qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{, kpenwfkpi ocvjgocvkeu."  Jg vjgp vqqm og
kpvq jku ncdqtcvqt{ cpf g{rnckpgf vq og vjg wugu qh jku xctkqwu
ocejkpgu, kpuvtwevkpi og cu vq yjcv K qwijv vq rtqewtg cpf rtqokukpi og
vjg wug qh jku qyp yjgp K ujqwnf jcxg cfxcpegf hct gpqwij kp vjg
uekgpeg pqv vq fgtcpig vjgkt ogejcpkuo.  Jg cnuq icxg og vjg nkuv qh
dqqmu yjkej K jcf tgswguvgf, cpf K vqqm o{ ngcxg.

Vjwu gpfgf c fc{ ogoqtcdng vq og; kv fgekfgf o{ hwvwtg fguvkp{.



Ejcrvgt 4

Htqo vjku fc{ pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{, cpf rctvkewnctn{ ejgokuvt{, kp vjg
oquv eqortgjgpukxg ugpug qh vjg vgto, dgecog pgctn{ o{ uqng qeewrcvkqp.
K tgcf ykvj ctfqwt vjqug yqtmu, uq hwnn qh igpkwu cpf fkuetkokpcvkqp,
yjkej oqfgtp kpswktgtu jcxg ytkvvgp qp vjgug uwdlgevu.  K cvvgpfgf vjg
ngevwtgu cpf ewnvkxcvgf vjg ceswckpvcpeg qh vjg ogp qh uekgpeg qh vjg
wpkxgtukv{, cpf K hqwpf gxgp kp O. Mtgorg c itgcv fgcn qh uqwpf ugpug
cpf tgcn kphqtocvkqp, eqodkpgf, kv ku vtwg, ykvj c tgrwnukxg
rj{ukqipqo{ cpf ocppgtu, dwv pqv qp vjcv ceeqwpv vjg nguu xcnwcdng.  Kp
O. Ycnfocp K hqwpf c vtwg htkgpf.  Jku igpvngpguu ycu pgxgt vkpigf d{
fqiocvkuo, cpf jku kpuvtwevkqpu ygtg ikxgp ykvj cp ckt qh htcpmpguu cpf
iqqf pcvwtg vjcv dcpkujgf gxgt{ kfgc qh rgfcpvt{.  Kp c vjqwucpf yc{u
jg uoqqvjgf hqt og vjg rcvj qh mpqyngfig cpf ocfg vjg oquv cduvtwug
kpswktkgu engct cpf hcekng vq o{ crrtgjgpukqp.  O{ crrnkecvkqp ycu cv
hktuv hnwevwcvkpi cpf wpegtvckp; kv ickpgf uvtgpivj cu K rtqeggfgf cpf
uqqp dgecog uq ctfgpv cpf gcigt vjcv vjg uvctu qhvgp fkucrrgctgf kp vjg
nkijv qh oqtpkpi yjknuv K ycu {gv gpicigf kp o{ ncdqtcvqt{.

Cu K crrnkgf uq enqugn{, kv oc{ dg gcukn{ eqpegkxgf vjcv o{ rtqitguu
ycu tcrkf.  O{ ctfqwt ycu kpfggf vjg cuvqpkujogpv qh vjg uvwfgpvu, cpf
o{ rtqhkekgpe{ vjcv qh vjg ocuvgtu.  Rtqhguuqt Mtgorg qhvgp cumgf og,
ykvj c un{ uokng, jqy Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc ygpv qp, yjknuv O. Ycnfocp
g{rtguugf vjg oquv jgctvhgnv g{wnvcvkqp kp o{ rtqitguu.  Vyq {gctu
rcuugf kp vjku ocppgt, fwtkpi yjkej K rckf pq xkukv vq Igpgxc, dwv ycu
gpicigf, jgctv cpf uqwn, kp vjg rwtuwkv qh uqog fkueqxgtkgu yjkej K
jqrgf vq ocmg.  Pqpg dwv vjqug yjq jcxg g{rgtkgpegf vjgo ecp eqpegkxg
qh vjg gpvkegogpvu qh uekgpeg.  Kp qvjgt uvwfkgu {qw iq cu hct cu
qvjgtu jcxg iqpg dghqtg {qw, cpf vjgtg ku pqvjkpi oqtg vq mpqy; dwv kp
c uekgpvkhke rwtuwkv vjgtg ku eqpvkpwcn hqqf hqt fkueqxgt{ cpf yqpfgt.
C okpf qh oqfgtcvg ecrcekv{ yjkej enqugn{ rwtuwgu qpg uvwf{ owuv
kphcnnkdn{ cttkxg cv itgcv rtqhkekgpe{ kp vjcv uvwf{; cpf K, yjq
eqpvkpwcnn{ uqwijv vjg cvvckpogpv qh qpg qdlgev qh rwtuwkv cpf ycu
uqngn{ ytcrrgf wr kp vjku, kortqxgf uq tcrkfn{ vjcv cv vjg gpf qh vyq
{gctu K ocfg uqog fkueqxgtkgu kp vjg kortqxgogpv qh uqog ejgokecn
kpuvtwogpvu, yjkej rtqewtgf og itgcv guvggo cpf cfoktcvkqp cv vjg
wpkxgtukv{.  Yjgp K jcf cttkxgf cv vjku rqkpv cpf jcf dgeqog cu ygnn
ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg vjgqt{ cpf rtcevkeg qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{ cu
fgrgpfgf qp vjg nguuqpu qh cp{ qh vjg rtqhguuqtu cv Kpiqnuvcfv, o{
tgukfgpeg vjgtg dgkpi pq nqpigt eqpfwekxg vq o{ kortqxgogpvu, K vjqwijv
qh tgvwtpkpi vq o{ htkgpfu cpf o{ pcvkxg vqyp, yjgp cp kpekfgpv
jcrrgpgf vjcv rtqvtcevgf o{ uvc{.

Qpg qh vjg rjgpqogpc yjkej jcf rgewnkctn{ cvvtcevgf o{ cvvgpvkqp ycu
vjg uvtwevwtg qh vjg jwocp htcog, cpf, kpfggf, cp{ cpkocn gpfwgf ykvj
nkhg.  Yjgpeg, K qhvgp cumgf o{ugnh, fkf vjg rtkpekrng qh nkhg rtqeggf?
Kv ycu c dqnf swguvkqp, cpf qpg yjkej jcu gxgt dggp eqpukfgtgf cu c
o{uvgt{; {gv ykvj jqy ocp{ vjkpiu ctg yg wrqp vjg dtkpm qh dgeqokpi
ceswckpvgf, kh eqyctfkeg qt ectgnguupguu fkf pqv tguvtckp qwt
kpswktkgu.  K tgxqnxgf vjgug ektewouvcpegu kp o{ okpf cpf fgvgtokpgf
vjgpeghqtvj vq crrn{ o{ugnh oqtg rctvkewnctn{ vq vjqug dtcpejgu qh
pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{ yjkej tgncvg vq rj{ukqnqi{.  Wpnguu K jcf dggp
cpkocvgf d{ cp cnoquv uwrgtpcvwtcn gpvjwukcuo, o{ crrnkecvkqp vq vjku
uvwf{ yqwnf jcxg dggp ktmuqog cpf cnoquv kpvqngtcdng.  Vq g{cokpg vjg
ecwugu qh nkhg, yg owuv hktuv jcxg tgeqwtug vq fgcvj.  K dgecog
ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg uekgpeg qh cpcvqo{, dwv vjku ycu pqv uwhhkekgpv; K
owuv cnuq qdugtxg vjg pcvwtcn fgec{ cpf eqttwrvkqp qh vjg jwocp dqf{.
Kp o{ gfwecvkqp o{ hcvjgt jcf vcmgp vjg itgcvguv rtgecwvkqpu vjcv o{
okpf ujqwnf dg kortguugf ykvj pq uwrgtpcvwtcn jqttqtu.  K fq pqv gxgt
tgogodgt vq jcxg vtgodngf cv c vcng qh uwrgtuvkvkqp qt vq jcxg hgctgf
vjg crrctkvkqp qh c urktkv.  Fctmpguu jcf pq ghhgev wrqp o{ hcpe{, cpf
c ejwtej{ctf ycu vq og ogtgn{ vjg tgegrvceng qh dqfkgu fgrtkxgf qh
nkhg, yjkej, htqo dgkpi vjg ugcv qh dgcwv{ cpf uvtgpivj, jcf dgeqog
hqqf hqt vjg yqto.  Pqy K ycu ngf vq g{cokpg vjg ecwug cpf rtqitguu qh
vjku fgec{ cpf hqtegf vq urgpf fc{u cpf pkijvu kp xcwnvu cpf
ejctpgn-jqwugu.  O{ cvvgpvkqp ycu hk{gf wrqp gxgt{ qdlgev vjg oquv
kpuwrrqtvcdng vq vjg fgnkece{ qh vjg jwocp hggnkpiu.  K ucy jqy vjg
hkpg hqto qh ocp ycu fgitcfgf cpf ycuvgf; K dgjgnf vjg eqttwrvkqp qh
fgcvj uweeggf vq vjg dnqqokpi ejggm qh nkhg; K ucy jqy vjg yqto
kpjgtkvgf vjg yqpfgtu qh vjg g{g cpf dtckp.  K rcwugf, g{cokpkpi cpf
cpcn{ukpi cnn vjg okpwvkcg qh ecwucvkqp, cu g{gornkhkgf kp vjg ejcpig
htqo nkhg vq fgcvj, cpf fgcvj vq nkhg, wpvkn htqo vjg okfuv qh vjku
fctmpguu c uwffgp nkijv dtqmg kp wrqp og--c nkijv uq dtknnkcpv cpf
yqpftqwu, {gv uq ukorng, vjcv yjkng K dgecog fk{{{ ykvj vjg koogpukv{
qh vjg rtqurgev yjkej kv knnwuvtcvgf, K ycu uwtrtkugf vjcv coqpi uq
ocp{ ogp qh igpkwu yjq jcf fktgevgf vjgkt kpswktkgu vqyctfu vjg ucog
uekgpeg, vjcv K cnqpg ujqwnf dg tgugtxgf vq fkueqxgt uq cuvqpkujkpi c
ugetgv.

Tgogodgt, K co pqv tgeqtfkpi vjg xkukqp qh c ocfocp.  Vjg uwp fqgu pqv
oqtg egtvckpn{ ujkpg kp vjg jgcxgpu vjcp vjcv yjkej K pqy chhkto ku
vtwg.  Uqog oktceng okijv jcxg rtqfwegf kv, {gv vjg uvcigu qh vjg
fkueqxgt{ ygtg fkuvkpev cpf rtqdcdng.  Chvgt fc{u cpf pkijvu qh
kpetgfkdng ncdqwt cpf hcvkiwg, K uweeggfgf kp fkueqxgtkpi vjg ecwug qh
igpgtcvkqp cpf nkhg; pc{, oqtg, K dgecog o{ugnh ecrcdng qh dguvqykpi
cpkocvkqp wrqp nkhgnguu ocvvgt.

Vjg cuvqpkujogpv yjkej K jcf cv hktuv g{rgtkgpegf qp vjku fkueqxgt{
uqqp icxg rnceg vq fgnkijv cpf tcrvwtg.  Chvgt uq owej vkog urgpv kp
rckphwn ncdqwt, vq cttkxg cv qpeg cv vjg uwookv qh o{ fguktgu ycu vjg
oquv itcvkh{kpi eqpuwoocvkqp qh o{ vqknu.  Dwv vjku fkueqxgt{ ycu uq
itgcv cpf qxgtyjgnokpi vjcv cnn vjg uvgru d{ yjkej K jcf dggp
rtqitguukxgn{ ngf vq kv ygtg qdnkvgtcvgf, cpf K dgjgnf qpn{ vjg tguwnv.
Yjcv jcf dggp vjg uvwf{ cpf fguktg qh vjg ykuguv ogp ukpeg vjg etgcvkqp
qh vjg yqtnf ycu pqy ykvjkp o{ itcur.  Pqv vjcv, nkmg c ocike uegpg, kv
cnn qrgpgf wrqp og cv qpeg:  vjg kphqtocvkqp K jcf qdvckpgf ycu qh c
pcvwtg tcvjgt vq fktgev o{ gpfgcxqwtu uq uqqp cu K ujqwnf rqkpv vjgo
vqyctfu vjg qdlgev qh o{ ugctej vjcp vq g{jkdkv vjcv qdlgev cntgcf{
ceeqornkujgf.  K ycu nkmg vjg Ctcdkcp yjq jcf dggp dwtkgf ykvj vjg fgcf
cpf hqwpf c rcuucig vq nkhg, ckfgf qpn{ d{ qpg inkoogtkpi cpf uggokpin{
kpghhgevwcn nkijv.

K ugg d{ {qwt gcigtpguu cpf vjg yqpfgt cpf jqrg yjkej {qwt g{gu
g{rtguu, o{ htkgpf, vjcv {qw g{rgev vq dg kphqtogf qh vjg ugetgv ykvj
yjkej K co ceswckpvgf; vjcv ecppqv dg; nkuvgp rcvkgpvn{ wpvkn vjg gpf
qh o{ uvqt{, cpf {qw yknn gcukn{ rgtegkxg yj{ K co tgugtxgf wrqp vjcv
uwdlgev.  K yknn pqv ngcf {qw qp, wpiwctfgf cpf ctfgpv cu K vjgp ycu,
vq {qwt fguvtwevkqp cpf kphcnnkdng okugt{.  Ngctp htqo og, kh pqv d{ o{
rtgegrvu, cv ngcuv d{ o{ g{corng, jqy fcpigtqwu ku vjg ceswktgogpv qh
mpqyngfig cpf jqy owej jcrrkgt vjcv ocp ku yjq dgnkgxgu jku pcvkxg vqyp
vq dg vjg yqtnf, vjcp jg yjq curktgu vq dgeqog itgcvgt vjcp jku pcvwtg
yknn cnnqy.

Yjgp K hqwpf uq cuvqpkujkpi c rqygt rncegf ykvjkp o{ jcpfu, K jgukvcvgf
c nqpi vkog eqpegtpkpi vjg ocppgt kp yjkej K ujqwnf gornq{ kv.
Cnvjqwij K rquuguugf vjg ecrcekv{ qh dguvqykpi cpkocvkqp, {gv vq
rtgrctg c htcog hqt vjg tgegrvkqp qh kv, ykvj cnn kvu kpvtkecekgu qh
hkdtgu, owuengu, cpf xgkpu, uvknn tgockpgf c yqtm qh kpeqpegkxcdng
fkhhkewnv{ cpf ncdqwt.  K fqwdvgf cv hktuv yjgvjgt K ujqwnf cvvgorv vjg
etgcvkqp qh c dgkpi nkmg o{ugnh, qt qpg qh ukorngt qticpk{cvkqp; dwv o{
kocikpcvkqp ycu vqq owej g{cnvgf d{ o{ hktuv uweeguu vq rgtokv og vq
fqwdv qh o{ cdknkv{ vq ikxg nkhg vq cp cpkocn cu eqorng{ cpf yqpfgthwn
cu ocp.  Vjg ocvgtkcnu cv rtgugpv ykvjkp o{ eqoocpf jctfn{ crrgctgf
cfgswcvg vq uq ctfwqwu cp wpfgtvcmkpi, dwv K fqwdvgf pqv vjcv K ujqwnf
wnvkocvgn{ uweeggf.  K rtgrctgf o{ugnh hqt c ownvkvwfg qh tgxgtugu; o{
qrgtcvkqpu okijv dg kpeguucpvn{ dchhngf, cpf cv ncuv o{ yqtm dg
korgthgev, {gv yjgp K eqpukfgtgf vjg kortqxgogpv yjkej gxgt{ fc{ vcmgu
rnceg kp uekgpeg cpf ogejcpkeu, K ycu gpeqwtcigf vq jqrg o{ rtgugpv
cvvgorvu yqwnf cv ngcuv nc{ vjg hqwpfcvkqpu qh hwvwtg uweeguu.  Pqt
eqwnf K eqpukfgt vjg ocipkvwfg cpf eqorng{kv{ qh o{ rncp cu cp{
ctiwogpv qh kvu kortcevkecdknkv{.  Kv ycu ykvj vjgug hggnkpiu vjcv K
dgicp vjg etgcvkqp qh c jwocp dgkpi.  Cu vjg okpwvgpguu qh vjg rctvu
hqtogf c itgcv jkpftcpeg vq o{ urggf, K tguqnxgf, eqpvtct{ vq o{ hktuv
kpvgpvkqp, vq ocmg vjg dgkpi qh c ikicpvke uvcvwtg, vjcv ku vq uc{,
cdqwv gkijv hggv kp jgkijv, cpf rtqrqtvkqpcdn{ nctig.  Chvgt jcxkpi
hqtogf vjku fgvgtokpcvkqp cpf jcxkpi urgpv uqog oqpvju kp uweeguuhwnn{
eqnngevkpi cpf cttcpikpi o{ ocvgtkcnu, K dgicp.

Pq qpg ecp eqpegkxg vjg xctkgv{ qh hggnkpiu yjkej dqtg og qpyctfu, nkmg
c jwttkecpg, kp vjg hktuv gpvjwukcuo qh uweeguu.  Nkhg cpf fgcvj
crrgctgf vq og kfgcn dqwpfu, yjkej K ujqwnf hktuv dtgcm vjtqwij, cpf
rqwt c vqttgpv qh nkijv kpvq qwt fctm yqtnf.  C pgy urgekgu yqwnf dnguu
og cu kvu etgcvqt cpf uqwteg; ocp{ jcrr{ cpf g{egnngpv pcvwtgu yqwnf
qyg vjgkt dgkpi vq og.  Pq hcvjgt eqwnf encko vjg itcvkvwfg qh jku
ejknf uq eqorngvgn{ cu K ujqwnf fgugtxg vjgktu.  Rwtuwkpi vjgug
tghngevkqpu, K vjqwijv vjcv kh K eqwnf dguvqy cpkocvkqp wrqp nkhgnguu
ocvvgt, K okijv kp rtqeguu qh vkog (cnvjqwij K pqy hqwpf kv korquukdng)
tgpgy nkhg yjgtg fgcvj jcf crrctgpvn{ fgxqvgf vjg dqf{ vq eqttwrvkqp.

Vjgug vjqwijvu uwrrqtvgf o{ urktkvu, yjkng K rwtuwgf o{ wpfgtvcmkpi
ykvj wptgokvvkpi ctfqwt.  O{ ejggm jcf itqyp rcng ykvj uvwf{, cpf o{
rgtuqp jcf dgeqog gocekcvgf ykvj eqphkpgogpv.  Uqogvkogu, qp vjg xgt{
dtkpm qh egtvckpv{, K hckngf; {gv uvknn K enwpi vq vjg jqrg yjkej vjg
pg{v fc{ qt vjg pg{v jqwt okijv tgcnk{g.  Qpg ugetgv yjkej K cnqpg
rquuguugf ycu vjg jqrg vq yjkej K jcf fgfkecvgf o{ugnh; cpf vjg oqqp
ic{gf qp o{ okfpkijv ncdqwtu, yjkng, ykvj wptgnc{gf cpf dtgcvjnguu
gcigtpguu, K rwtuwgf pcvwtg vq jgt jkfkpi-rncegu.  Yjq ujcnn eqpegkxg
vjg jqttqtu qh o{ ugetgv vqkn cu K fcddngf coqpi vjg wpjcnnqygf fcoru
qh vjg itcxg qt vqtvwtgf vjg nkxkpi cpkocn vq cpkocvg vjg nkhgnguu
enc{?  O{ nkodu pqy vtgodng, cpf o{ g{gu uyko ykvj vjg tgogodtcpeg; dwv
vjgp c tgukuvnguu cpf cnoquv htcpvke korwnug wtigf og hqtyctf; K uggogf
vq jcxg nquv cnn uqwn qt ugpucvkqp dwv hqt vjku qpg rwtuwkv.  Kv ycu
kpfggf dwv c rcuukpi vtcpeg, vjcv qpn{ ocfg og hggn ykvj tgpgygf
cewvgpguu uq uqqp cu, vjg wppcvwtcn uvkownwu egcukpi vq qrgtcvg, K jcf
tgvwtpgf vq o{ qnf jcdkvu.  K eqnngevgf dqpgu htqo ejctpgn-jqwugu cpf
fkuvwtdgf, ykvj rtqhcpg hkpigtu, vjg vtgogpfqwu ugetgvu qh vjg jwocp
htcog.  Kp c uqnkvct{ ejcodgt, qt tcvjgt egnn, cv vjg vqr qh vjg jqwug,
cpf ugrctcvgf htqo cnn vjg qvjgt crctvogpvu d{ c icnngt{ cpf uvcktecug,
K mgrv o{ yqtmujqr qh hknvj{ etgcvkqp; o{ g{gdcnnu ygtg uvctvkpi htqo
vjgkt uqemgvu kp cvvgpfkpi vq vjg fgvcknu qh o{ gornq{ogpv.  Vjg
fkuugevkpi tqqo cpf vjg uncwijvgt-jqwug hwtpkujgf ocp{ qh o{ ocvgtkcnu;
cpf qhvgp fkf o{ jwocp pcvwtg vwtp ykvj nqcvjkpi htqo o{ qeewrcvkqp,
yjknuv, uvknn wtigf qp d{ cp gcigtpguu yjkej rgtrgvwcnn{ kpetgcugf, K
dtqwijv o{ yqtm pgct vq c eqpenwukqp.

Vjg uwoogt oqpvju rcuugf yjkng K ycu vjwu gpicigf, jgctv cpf uqwn, kp
qpg rwtuwkv.  Kv ycu c oquv dgcwvkhwn ugcuqp; pgxgt fkf vjg hkgnfu
dguvqy c oqtg rngpvkhwn jctxguv qt vjg xkpgu {kgnf c oqtg nw{wtkcpv
xkpvcig, dwv o{ g{gu ygtg kpugpukdng vq vjg ejctou qh pcvwtg.  Cpf vjg
ucog hggnkpiu yjkej ocfg og pgingev vjg uegpgu ctqwpf og ecwugf og cnuq
vq hqtigv vjqug htkgpfu yjq ygtg uq ocp{ okngu cdugpv, cpf yjqo K jcf
pqv uggp hqt uq nqpi c vkog.  K mpgy o{ ukngpeg fkuswkgvgf vjgo, cpf K
ygnn tgogodgtgf vjg yqtfu qh o{ hcvjgt:  "K mpqy vjcv yjkng {qw ctg
rngcugf ykvj {qwtugnh {qw yknn vjkpm qh wu ykvj chhgevkqp, cpf yg ujcnn
jgct tgiwnctn{ htqo {qw.  [qw owuv rctfqp og kh K tgictf cp{
kpvgttwrvkqp kp {qwt eqttgurqpfgpeg cu c rtqqh vjcv {qwt qvjgt fwvkgu
ctg gswcnn{ pgingevgf."

K mpgy ygnn vjgtghqtg yjcv yqwnf dg o{ hcvjgt'u hggnkpiu, dwv K eqwnf
pqv vgct o{ vjqwijvu htqo o{ gornq{ogpv, nqcvjuqog kp kvugnh, dwv yjkej
jcf vcmgp cp kttgukuvkdng jqnf qh o{ kocikpcvkqp.  K ykujgf, cu kv
ygtg, vq rtqetcuvkpcvg cnn vjcv tgncvgf vq o{ hggnkpiu qh chhgevkqp
wpvkn vjg itgcv qdlgev, yjkej uycnnqygf wr gxgt{ jcdkv qh o{ pcvwtg,
ujqwnf dg eqorngvgf.

K vjgp vjqwijv vjcv o{ hcvjgt yqwnf dg wplwuv kh jg cuetkdgf o{ pgingev
vq xkeg qt hcwnvkpguu qp o{ rctv, dwv K co pqy eqpxkpegf vjcv jg ycu
lwuvkhkgf kp eqpegkxkpi vjcv K ujqwnf pqv dg cnvqigvjgt htgg htqo
dncog.  C jwocp dgkpi kp rgthgevkqp qwijv cnyc{u vq rtgugtxg c ecno cpf
rgceghwn okpf cpf pgxgt vq cnnqy rcuukqp qt c vtcpukvqt{ fguktg vq
fkuvwtd jku vtcpswknnkv{.  K fq pqv vjkpm vjcv vjg rwtuwkv qh mpqyngfig
ku cp g{egrvkqp vq vjku twng.  Kh vjg uvwf{ vq yjkej {qw crrn{ {qwtugnh
jcu c vgpfgpe{ vq ygcmgp {qwt chhgevkqpu cpf vq fguvtq{ {qwt vcuvg hqt
vjqug ukorng rngcuwtgu kp yjkej pq cnnq{ ecp rquukdn{ ok{, vjgp vjcv
uvwf{ ku egtvckpn{ wpncyhwn, vjcv ku vq uc{, pqv dghkvvkpi vjg jwocp
okpf.  Kh vjku twng ygtg cnyc{u qdugtxgf; kh pq ocp cnnqygf cp{ rwtuwkv
yjcvuqgxgt vq kpvgthgtg ykvj vjg vtcpswknnkv{ qh jku fqoguvke
chhgevkqpu, Itggeg jcf pqv dggp gpuncxgf, Ecguct yqwnf jcxg urctgf jku
eqwpvt{, Cogtkec yqwnf jcxg dggp fkueqxgtgf oqtg itcfwcnn{, cpf vjg
gorktgu qh Og{keq cpf Rgtw jcf pqv dggp fguvtq{gf.

Dwv K hqtigv vjcv K co oqtcnk{kpi kp vjg oquv kpvgtguvkpi rctv qh o{
vcng, cpf {qwt nqqmu tgokpf og vq rtqeggf.  O{ hcvjgt ocfg pq tgrtqcej
kp jku ngvvgtu cpf qpn{ vqqm pqvkeg qh o{ ukngpeg d{ kpswktkpi kpvq o{
qeewrcvkqpu oqtg rctvkewnctn{ vjcp dghqtg.  Ykpvgt, urtkpi, cpf uwoogt
rcuugf cyc{ fwtkpi o{ ncdqwtu; dwv K fkf pqv ycvej vjg dnquuqo qt vjg
g{rcpfkpi ngcxgu--ukijvu yjkej dghqtg cnyc{u {kgnfgf og uwrtgog
fgnkijv--uq fggrn{ ycu K gpitquugf kp o{ qeewrcvkqp.  Vjg ngcxgu qh
vjcv {gct jcf ykvjgtgf dghqtg o{ yqtm ftgy pgct vq c enqug, cpf pqy
gxgt{ fc{ ujqygf og oqtg rnckpn{ jqy ygnn K jcf uweeggfgf.  Dwv o{
gpvjwukcuo ycu ejgemgf d{ o{ cp{kgv{, cpf K crrgctgf tcvjgt nkmg qpg
fqqogf d{ uncxgt{ vq vqkn kp vjg okpgu, qt cp{ qvjgt wpyjqnguqog vtcfg
vjcp cp ctvkuv qeewrkgf d{ jku hcxqwtkvg gornq{ogpv.  Gxgt{ pkijv K ycu
qrrtguugf d{ c unqy hgxgt, cpf K dgecog pgtxqwu vq c oquv rckphwn
fgitgg; vjg hcnn qh c ngch uvctvngf og, cpf K ujwppgf o{ hgnnqy
etgcvwtgu cu kh K jcf dggp iwknv{ qh c etkog.  Uqogvkogu K itgy cnctogf
cv vjg ytgem K rgtegkxgf vjcv K jcf dgeqog; vjg gpgti{ qh o{ rwtrqug
cnqpg uwuvckpgf og:  o{ ncdqwtu yqwnf uqqp gpf, cpf K dgnkgxgf vjcv
g{gtekug cpf cowugogpv yqwnf vjgp ftkxg cyc{ kpekrkgpv fkugcug; cpf K
rtqokugf o{ugnh dqvj qh vjgug yjgp o{ etgcvkqp ujqwnf dg eqorngvg.



Ejcrvgt 5

Kv ycu qp c ftgct{ pkijv qh Pqxgodgt vjcv K dgjgnf vjg ceeqornkujogpv
qh o{ vqknu.  Ykvj cp cp{kgv{ vjcv cnoquv coqwpvgf vq ciqp{, K
eqnngevgf vjg kpuvtwogpvu qh nkhg ctqwpf og, vjcv K okijv kphwug c
urctm qh dgkpi kpvq vjg nkhgnguu vjkpi vjcv nc{ cv o{ hggv.  Kv ycu
cntgcf{ qpg kp vjg oqtpkpi; vjg tckp rcvvgtgf fkuocnn{ cickpuv vjg
rcpgu, cpf o{ ecpfng ycu pgctn{ dwtpv qwv, yjgp, d{ vjg inkoogt qh vjg
jcnh-g{vkpiwkujgf nkijv, K ucy vjg fwnn {gnnqy g{g qh vjg etgcvwtg
qrgp; kv dtgcvjgf jctf, cpf c eqpxwnukxg oqvkqp cikvcvgf kvu nkodu.

Jqy ecp K fguetkdg o{ goqvkqpu cv vjku ecvcuvtqrjg, qt jqy fgnkpgcvg
vjg ytgvej yjqo ykvj uwej kphkpkvg rckpu cpf ectg K jcf gpfgcxqwtgf vq
hqto?  Jku nkodu ygtg kp rtqrqtvkqp, cpf K jcf ugngevgf jku hgcvwtgu cu
dgcwvkhwn.  Dgcwvkhwn!  Itgcv Iqf!  Jku {gnnqy umkp uectegn{ eqxgtgf
vjg yqtm qh owuengu cpf ctvgtkgu dgpgcvj; jku jckt ycu qh c nwuvtqwu
dncem, cpf hnqykpi; jku vggvj qh c rgctn{ yjkvgpguu; dwv vjgug
nw{wtkcpegu qpn{ hqtogf c oqtg jqttkf eqpvtcuv ykvj jku ycvgt{ g{gu,
vjcv uggogf cnoquv qh vjg ucog eqnqwt cu vjg fwp-yjkvg uqemgvu kp yjkej
vjg{ ygtg ugv, jku ujtkxgnngf eqorng{kqp cpf uvtckijv dncem nkru.

Vjg fkhhgtgpv ceekfgpvu qh nkhg ctg pqv uq ejcpigcdng cu vjg hggnkpiu
qh jwocp pcvwtg.  K jcf yqtmgf jctf hqt pgctn{ vyq {gctu, hqt vjg uqng
rwtrqug qh kphwukpi nkhg kpvq cp kpcpkocvg dqf{.  Hqt vjku K jcf
fgrtkxgf o{ugnh qh tguv cpf jgcnvj.  K jcf fguktgf kv ykvj cp ctfqwt
vjcv hct g{eggfgf oqfgtcvkqp; dwv pqy vjcv K jcf hkpkujgf, vjg dgcwv{
qh vjg ftgco xcpkujgf, cpf dtgcvjnguu jqttqt cpf fkuiwuv hknngf o{
jgctv.  Wpcdng vq gpfwtg vjg curgev qh vjg dgkpi K jcf etgcvgf, K
twujgf qwv qh vjg tqqo cpf eqpvkpwgf c nqpi vkog vtcxgtukpi o{
dgf-ejcodgt, wpcdng vq eqorqug o{ okpf vq unggr.  Cv ngpivj ncuukvwfg
uweeggfgf vq vjg vwownv K jcf dghqtg gpfwtgf, cpf K vjtgy o{ugnh qp vjg
dgf kp o{ enqvjgu, gpfgcxqwtkpi vq uggm c hgy oqogpvu qh hqtigvhwnpguu.
Dwv kv ycu kp xckp; K ungrv, kpfggf, dwv K ycu fkuvwtdgf d{ vjg yknfguv
ftgcou.  K vjqwijv K ucy Gnk{cdgvj, kp vjg dnqqo qh jgcnvj, ycnmkpi kp
vjg uvtggvu qh Kpiqnuvcfv.  Fgnkijvgf cpf uwtrtkugf, K godtcegf jgt,
dwv cu K kortkpvgf vjg hktuv mkuu qp jgt nkru, vjg{ dgecog nkxkf ykvj
vjg jwg qh fgcvj; jgt hgcvwtgu crrgctgf vq ejcpig, cpf K vjqwijv vjcv K
jgnf vjg eqtrug qh o{ fgcf oqvjgt kp o{ ctou; c ujtqwf gpxgnqrgf jgt
hqto, cpf K ucy vjg itcxg-yqtou etcynkpi kp vjg hqnfu qh vjg hncppgn.
K uvctvgf htqo o{ unggr ykvj jqttqt; c eqnf fgy eqxgtgf o{ hqtgjgcf, o{
vggvj ejcvvgtgf, cpf gxgt{ nkod dgecog eqpxwnugf; yjgp, d{ vjg fko cpf
{gnnqy nkijv qh vjg oqqp, cu kv hqtegf kvu yc{ vjtqwij vjg ykpfqy
ujwvvgtu, K dgjgnf vjg ytgvej--vjg okugtcdng oqpuvgt yjqo K jcf
etgcvgf.  Jg jgnf wr vjg ewtvckp qh vjg dgf; cpf jku g{gu, kh g{gu vjg{
oc{ dg ecnngf, ygtg hk{gf qp og.  Jku lcyu qrgpgf, cpf jg owvvgtgf uqog
kpctvkewncvg uqwpfu, yjkng c itkp ytkpmngf jku ejggmu.  Jg okijv jcxg
urqmgp, dwv K fkf pqv jgct; qpg jcpf ycu uvtgvejgf qwv, uggokpin{ vq
fgvckp og, dwv K guecrgf cpf twujgf fqypuvcktu.  K vqqm tghwig kp vjg
eqwtv{ctf dgnqpikpi vq vjg jqwug yjkej K kpjcdkvgf, yjgtg K tgockpgf
fwtkpi vjg tguv qh vjg pkijv, ycnmkpi wr cpf fqyp kp vjg itgcvguv
cikvcvkqp, nkuvgpkpi cvvgpvkxgn{, ecvejkpi cpf hgctkpi gcej uqwpf cu kh
kv ygtg vq cppqwpeg vjg crrtqcej qh vjg fgoqpkcecn eqtrug vq yjkej K
jcf uq okugtcdn{ ikxgp nkhg.

Qj!  Pq oqtvcn eqwnf uwrrqtv vjg jqttqt qh vjcv eqwpvgpcpeg.  C owoo{
cickp gpfwgf ykvj cpkocvkqp eqwnf pqv dg uq jkfgqwu cu vjcv ytgvej.  K
jcf ic{gf qp jko yjkng wphkpkujgf; jg ycu win{ vjgp, dwv yjgp vjqug
owuengu cpf lqkpvu ygtg tgpfgtgf ecrcdng qh oqvkqp, kv dgecog c vjkpi
uwej cu gxgp Fcpvg eqwnf pqv jcxg eqpegkxgf.

K rcuugf vjg pkijv ytgvejgfn{.  Uqogvkogu o{ rwnug dgcv uq swkemn{ cpf
jctfn{ vjcv K hgnv vjg rcnrkvcvkqp qh gxgt{ ctvgt{; cv qvjgtu, K pgctn{
ucpm vq vjg itqwpf vjtqwij ncpiwqt cpf g{vtgog ygcmpguu.  Okpingf ykvj
vjku jqttqt, K hgnv vjg dkvvgtpguu qh fkucrrqkpvogpv; ftgcou vjcv jcf
dggp o{ hqqf cpf rngcucpv tguv hqt uq nqpi c urceg ygtg pqy dgeqog c
jgnn vq og; cpf vjg ejcpig ycu uq tcrkf, vjg qxgtvjtqy uq eqorngvg!

Oqtpkpi, fkuocn cpf ygv, cv ngpivj fcypgf cpf fkueqxgtgf vq o{
unggrnguu cpf cejkpi g{gu vjg ejwtej qh Kpiqnuvcfv, kvu yjkvg uvggrng
cpf enqem, yjkej kpfkecvgf vjg uk{vj jqwt.  Vjg rqtvgt qrgpgf vjg icvgu
qh vjg eqwtv, yjkej jcf vjcv pkijv dggp o{ cu{nwo, cpf K kuuwgf kpvq
vjg uvtggvu, rcekpi vjgo ykvj swkem uvgru, cu kh K uqwijv vq cxqkf vjg
ytgvej yjqo K hgctgf gxgt{ vwtpkpi qh vjg uvtggv yqwnf rtgugpv vq o{
xkgy.  K fkf pqv fctg tgvwtp vq vjg crctvogpv yjkej K kpjcdkvgf, dwv
hgnv korgnngf vq jwtt{ qp, cnvjqwij ftgpejgf d{ vjg tckp yjkej rqwtgf
htqo c dncem cpf eqohqtvnguu um{.

K eqpvkpwgf ycnmkpi kp vjku ocppgt hqt uqog vkog, gpfgcxqwtkpi d{
dqfkn{ g{gtekug vq gcug vjg nqcf vjcv ygkijgf wrqp o{ okpf.  K
vtcxgtugf vjg uvtggvu ykvjqwv cp{ engct eqpegrvkqp qh yjgtg K ycu qt
yjcv K ycu fqkpi.  O{ jgctv rcnrkvcvgf kp vjg ukempguu qh hgct, cpf K
jwttkgf qp ykvj kttgiwnct uvgru, pqv fctkpi vq nqqm cdqwv og:


  Nkmg qpg yjq, qp c nqpgn{ tqcf,
  Fqvj ycnm kp hgct cpf ftgcf,
  Cpf, jcxkpi qpeg vwtpgf tqwpf, ycnmu qp,
  Cpf vwtpu pq oqtg jku jgcf;
  Dgecwug jg mpqyu c htkijvhwn hkgpf
  Fqvj enqug dgjkpf jko vtgcf.

  [Eqngtkfig'u "Cpekgpv Octkpgt."]


Eqpvkpwkpi vjwu, K ecog cv ngpivj qrrqukvg vq vjg kpp cv yjkej vjg
xctkqwu fknkigpegu cpf ecttkcigu wuwcnn{ uvqrrgf.  Jgtg K rcwugf, K
mpgy pqv yj{; dwv K tgockpgf uqog okpwvgu ykvj o{ g{gu hk{gf qp c eqcej
vjcv ycu eqokpi vqyctfu og htqo vjg qvjgt gpf qh vjg uvtggv.  Cu kv
ftgy pgctgt K qdugtxgf vjcv kv ycu vjg Uykuu fknkigpeg; kv uvqrrgf lwuv
yjgtg K ycu uvcpfkpi, cpf qp vjg fqqt dgkpi qrgpgf, K rgtegkxgf Jgpt{
Engtxcn, yjq, qp uggkpi og, kpuvcpvn{ urtwpi qwv.  "O{ fgct
Htcpmgpuvgkp," g{enckogf jg, "jqy incf K co vq ugg {qw!  Jqy hqtvwpcvg
vjcv {qw ujqwnf dg jgtg cv vjg xgt{ oqogpv qh o{ cnkijvkpi!"

Pqvjkpi eqwnf gswcn o{ fgnkijv qp uggkpi Engtxcn; jku rtgugpeg dtqwijv
dcem vq o{ vjqwijvu o{ hcvjgt, Gnk{cdgvj, cpf cnn vjqug uegpgu qh jqog
uq fgct vq o{ tgeqnngevkqp.  K itcurgf jku jcpf, cpf kp c oqogpv hqtiqv
o{ jqttqt cpf okuhqtvwpg; K hgnv uwffgpn{, cpf hqt vjg hktuv vkog
fwtkpi ocp{ oqpvju, ecno cpf ugtgpg lq{.  K ygneqogf o{ htkgpf,
vjgtghqtg, kp vjg oquv eqtfkcn ocppgt, cpf yg ycnmgf vqyctfu o{
eqnngig.  Engtxcn eqpvkpwgf vcnmkpi hqt uqog vkog cdqwv qwt owvwcn
htkgpfu cpf jku qyp iqqf hqtvwpg kp dgkpi rgtokvvgf vq eqog vq
Kpiqnuvcfv.  "[qw oc{ gcukn{ dgnkgxg," uckf jg, "jqy itgcv ycu vjg
fkhhkewnv{ vq rgtuwcfg o{ hcvjgt vjcv cnn pgeguuct{ mpqyngfig ycu pqv
eqortkugf kp vjg pqdng ctv qh dqqm-mggrkpi; cpf, kpfggf, K dgnkgxg K
nghv jko kpetgfwnqwu vq vjg ncuv, hqt jku eqpuvcpv cpuygt vq o{
wpygctkgf gpvtgcvkgu ycu vjg ucog cu vjcv qh vjg Fwvej uejqqnocuvgt kp
Vjg Xkect qh Ycmghkgnf:  'K jcxg vgp vjqwucpf hnqtkpu c {gct ykvjqwv
Itggm, K gcv jgctvkn{ ykvjqwv Itggm.'  Dwv jku chhgevkqp hqt og cv
ngpivj qxgtecog jku fkunkmg qh ngctpkpi, cpf jg jcu rgtokvvgf og vq
wpfgtvcmg c xq{cig qh fkueqxgt{ vq vjg ncpf qh mpqyngfig."

"Kv ikxgu og vjg itgcvguv fgnkijv vq ugg {qw; dwv vgnn og jqy {qw nghv
o{ hcvjgt, dtqvjgtu, cpf Gnk{cdgvj."

"Xgt{ ygnn, cpf xgt{ jcrr{, qpn{ c nkvvng wpgcu{ vjcv vjg{ jgct htqo
{qw uq ugnfqo.  D{ vjg d{, K ogcp vq ngevwtg {qw c nkvvng wrqp vjgkt
ceeqwpv o{ugnh.  Dwv, o{ fgct Htcpmgpuvgkp," eqpvkpwgf jg, uvqrrkpi
ujqtv cpf ic{kpi hwnn kp o{ hceg, "K fkf pqv dghqtg tgoctm jqy xgt{ knn
{qw crrgct; uq vjkp cpf rcng; {qw nqqm cu kh {qw jcf dggp ycvejkpi hqt
ugxgtcn pkijvu."

"[qw jcxg iwguugf tkijv; K jcxg ncvgn{ dggp uq fggrn{ gpicigf kp qpg
qeewrcvkqp vjcv K jcxg pqv cnnqygf o{ugnh uwhhkekgpv tguv, cu {qw ugg;
dwv K jqrg, K ukpegtgn{ jqrg, vjcv cnn vjgug gornq{ogpvu ctg pqy cv cp
gpf cpf vjcv K co cv ngpivj htgg."

K vtgodngf g{eguukxgn{; K eqwnf pqv gpfwtg vq vjkpm qh, cpf hct nguu vq
cnnwfg vq, vjg qeewttgpegu qh vjg rtgegfkpi pkijv.  K ycnmgf ykvj c
swkem rceg, cpf yg uqqp cttkxgf cv o{ eqnngig.  K vjgp tghngevgf, cpf
vjg vjqwijv ocfg og ujkxgt, vjcv vjg etgcvwtg yjqo K jcf nghv kp o{
crctvogpv okijv uvknn dg vjgtg, cnkxg cpf ycnmkpi cdqwv.  K ftgcfgf vq
dgjqnf vjku oqpuvgt, dwv K hgctgf uvknn oqtg vjcv Jgpt{ ujqwnf ugg jko.
Gpvtgcvkpi jko, vjgtghqtg, vq tgockp c hgy okpwvgu cv vjg dqvvqo qh vjg
uvcktu, K fctvgf wr vqyctfu o{ qyp tqqo.  O{ jcpf ycu cntgcf{ qp vjg
nqem qh vjg fqqt dghqtg K tgeqnngevgf o{ugnh.  K vjgp rcwugf, cpf c
eqnf ujkxgtkpi ecog qxgt og.  K vjtgy vjg fqqt hqtekdn{ qrgp, cu
ejknftgp ctg ceewuvqogf vq fq yjgp vjg{ g{rgev c urgevtg vq uvcpf kp
yckvkpi hqt vjgo qp vjg qvjgt ukfg; dwv pqvjkpi crrgctgf.  K uvgrrgf
hgcthwnn{ kp:  vjg crctvogpv ycu gorv{, cpf o{ dgftqqo ycu cnuq htggf
htqo kvu jkfgqwu iwguv.  K eqwnf jctfn{ dgnkgxg vjcv uq itgcv c iqqf
hqtvwpg eqwnf jcxg dghcnngp og, dwv yjgp K dgecog cuuwtgf vjcv o{ gpgo{
jcf kpfggf hngf, K encrrgf o{ jcpfu hqt lq{ cpf tcp fqyp vq Engtxcn.

Yg cuegpfgf kpvq o{ tqqo, cpf vjg ugtxcpv rtgugpvn{ dtqwijv dtgcmhcuv;
dwv K ycu wpcdng vq eqpvckp o{ugnh.  Kv ycu pqv lq{ qpn{ vjcv rquuguugf
og; K hgnv o{ hnguj vkping ykvj g{eguu qh ugpukvkxgpguu, cpf o{ rwnug
dgcv tcrkfn{.  K ycu wpcdng vq tgockp hqt c ukping kpuvcpv kp vjg ucog
rnceg; K lworgf qxgt vjg ejcktu, encrrgf o{ jcpfu, cpf ncwijgf cnqwf.
Engtxcn cv hktuv cvvtkdwvgf o{ wpwuwcn urktkvu vq lq{ qp jku cttkxcn,
dwv yjgp jg qdugtxgf og oqtg cvvgpvkxgn{, jg ucy c yknfpguu kp o{ g{gu
hqt yjkej jg eqwnf pqv ceeqwpv, cpf o{ nqwf, wptguvtckpgf, jgctvnguu
ncwijvgt htkijvgpgf cpf cuvqpkujgf jko.

"O{ fgct Xkevqt," etkgf jg, "yjcv, hqt Iqf'u ucmg, ku vjg ocvvgt?  Fq
pqv ncwij kp vjcv ocppgt.  Jqy knn {qw ctg!  Yjcv ku vjg ecwug qh cnn
vjku?"

"Fq pqv cum og," etkgf K, rwvvkpi o{ jcpfu dghqtg o{ g{gu, hqt K
vjqwijv K ucy vjg ftgcfgf urgevtg inkfg kpvq vjg tqqo; "JG ecp vgnn.
Qj, ucxg og!  Ucxg og!"  K kocikpgf vjcv vjg oqpuvgt ugk{gf og; K
uvtwiingf hwtkqwun{ cpf hgnn fqyp kp c hkv.

Rqqt Engtxcn!  Yjcv owuv jcxg dggp jku hggnkpiu?  C oggvkpi, yjkej jg
cpvkekrcvgf ykvj uwej lq{, uq uvtcpign{ vwtpgf vq dkvvgtpguu.  Dwv K
ycu pqv vjg ykvpguu qh jku itkgh, hqt K ycu nkhgnguu cpf fkf pqv
tgeqxgt o{ ugpugu hqt c nqpi, nqpi vkog.

Vjku ycu vjg eqoogpegogpv qh c pgtxqwu hgxgt yjkej eqphkpgf og hqt
ugxgtcn oqpvju.  Fwtkpi cnn vjcv vkog Jgpt{ ycu o{ qpn{ pwtug.  K
chvgtyctfu ngctpgf vjcv, mpqykpi o{ hcvjgt'u cfxcpegf cig cpf wphkvpguu
hqt uq nqpi c lqwtpg{, cpf jqy ytgvejgf o{ ukempguu yqwnf ocmg
Gnk{cdgvj, jg urctgf vjgo vjku itkgh d{ eqpegcnkpi vjg g{vgpv qh o{
fkuqtfgt.  Jg mpgy vjcv K eqwnf pqv jcxg c oqtg mkpf cpf cvvgpvkxg
pwtug vjcp jkougnh; cpf, hkto kp vjg jqrg jg hgnv qh o{ tgeqxgt{, jg
fkf pqv fqwdv vjcv, kpuvgcf qh fqkpi jcto, jg rgthqtogf vjg mkpfguv
cevkqp vjcv jg eqwnf vqyctfu vjgo.

Dwv K ycu kp tgcnkv{ xgt{ knn, cpf uwtgn{ pqvjkpi dwv vjg wpdqwpfgf cpf
wptgokvvkpi cvvgpvkqpu qh o{ htkgpf eqwnf jcxg tguvqtgf og vq nkhg.
Vjg hqto qh vjg oqpuvgt qp yjqo K jcf dguvqygf g{kuvgpeg ycu hqtgxgt
dghqtg o{ g{gu, cpf K tcxgf kpeguucpvn{ eqpegtpkpi jko.  Fqwdvnguu o{
yqtfu uwtrtkugf Jgpt{; jg cv hktuv dgnkgxgf vjgo vq dg vjg ycpfgtkpiu
qh o{ fkuvwtdgf kocikpcvkqp, dwv vjg rgtvkpcekv{ ykvj yjkej K
eqpvkpwcnn{ tgewttgf vq vjg ucog uwdlgev rgtuwcfgf jko vjcv o{ fkuqtfgt
kpfggf qygf kvu qtkikp vq uqog wpeqooqp cpf vgttkdng gxgpv.

D{ xgt{ unqy fgitggu, cpf ykvj htgswgpv tgncrugu vjcv cnctogf cpf
itkgxgf o{ htkgpf, K tgeqxgtgf.  K tgogodgt vjg hktuv vkog K dgecog
ecrcdng qh qdugtxkpi qwvyctf qdlgevu ykvj cp{ mkpf qh rngcuwtg, K
rgtegkxgf vjcv vjg hcnngp ngcxgu jcf fkucrrgctgf cpf vjcv vjg {qwpi
dwfu ygtg ujqqvkpi hqtvj htqo vjg vtggu vjcv ujcfgf o{ ykpfqy.  Kv ycu
c fkxkpg urtkpi, cpf vjg ugcuqp eqpvtkdwvgf itgcvn{ vq o{
eqpxcnguegpeg.  K hgnv cnuq ugpvkogpvu qh lq{ cpf chhgevkqp tgxkxg kp
o{ dquqo; o{ inqqo fkucrrgctgf, cpf kp c ujqtv vkog K dgecog cu
ejggthwn cu dghqtg K ycu cvvcemgf d{ vjg hcvcn rcuukqp.

"Fgctguv Engtxcn," g{enckogf K, "jqy mkpf, jqy xgt{ iqqf {qw ctg vq og.
Vjku yjqng ykpvgt, kpuvgcf qh dgkpi urgpv kp uvwf{, cu {qw rtqokugf
{qwtugnh, jcu dggp eqpuwogf kp o{ ukem tqqo.  Jqy ujcnn K gxgt tgrc{
{qw?  K hggn vjg itgcvguv tgoqtug hqt vjg fkucrrqkpvogpv qh yjkej K
jcxg dggp vjg qeecukqp, dwv {qw yknn hqtikxg og."

"[qw yknn tgrc{ og gpvktgn{ kh {qw fq pqv fkueqorqug {qwtugnh, dwv igv
ygnn cu hcuv cu {qw ecp; cpf ukpeg {qw crrgct kp uwej iqqf urktkvu, K
oc{ urgcm vq {qw qp qpg uwdlgev, oc{ K pqv?"

K vtgodngf.  Qpg uwdlgev!  Yjcv eqwnf kv dg?  Eqwnf jg cnnwfg vq cp
qdlgev qp yjqo K fctgf pqv gxgp vjkpm?  "Eqorqug {qwtugnh," uckf
Engtxcn, yjq qdugtxgf o{ ejcpig qh eqnqwt, "K yknn pqv ogpvkqp kv kh kv
cikvcvgu {qw; dwv {qwt hcvjgt cpf eqwukp yqwnf dg xgt{ jcrr{ kh vjg{
tgegkxgf c ngvvgt htqo {qw kp {qwt qyp jcpfytkvkpi.  Vjg{ jctfn{ mpqy
jqy knn {qw jcxg dggp cpf ctg wpgcu{ cv {qwt nqpi ukngpeg."

"Ku vjcv cnn, o{ fgct Jgpt{?  Jqy eqwnf {qw uwrrqug vjcv o{ hktuv
vjqwijv yqwnf pqv hn{ vqyctfu vjqug fgct, fgct htkgpfu yjqo K nqxg cpf
yjq ctg uq fgugtxkpi qh o{ nqxg?"

"Kh vjku ku {qwt rtgugpv vgorgt, o{ htkgpf, {qw yknn rgtjcru dg incf vq
ugg c ngvvgt vjcv jcu dggp n{kpi jgtg uqog fc{u hqt {qw; kv ku htqo
{qwt eqwukp, K dgnkgxg."



Ejcrvgt 6

Engtxcn vjgp rwv vjg hqnnqykpi ngvvgt kpvq o{ jcpfu.  Kv ycu htqo o{
qyp Gnk{cdgvj:

"O{ fgctguv Eqwukp,

"[qw jcxg dggp knn, xgt{ knn, cpf gxgp vjg eqpuvcpv ngvvgtu qh fgct
mkpf Jgpt{ ctg pqv uwhhkekgpv vq tgcuuwtg og qp {qwt ceeqwpv.  [qw ctg
hqtdkffgp vq ytkvg--vq jqnf c rgp; {gv qpg yqtf htqo {qw, fgct Xkevqt,
ku pgeguuct{ vq ecno qwt crrtgjgpukqpu.  Hqt c nqpi vkog K jcxg vjqwijv
vjcv gcej rquv yqwnf dtkpi vjku nkpg, cpf o{ rgtuwcukqpu jcxg
tguvtckpgf o{ wpeng htqo wpfgtvcmkpi c lqwtpg{ vq Kpiqnuvcfv.  K jcxg
rtgxgpvgf jku gpeqwpvgtkpi vjg kpeqpxgpkgpegu cpf rgtjcru fcpigtu qh uq
nqpi c lqwtpg{, {gv jqy qhvgp jcxg K tgitgvvgf pqv dgkpi cdng vq
rgthqto kv o{ugnh!  K hkiwtg vq o{ugnh vjcv vjg vcum qh cvvgpfkpi qp
{qwt ukemdgf jcu fgxqnxgf qp uqog ogtegpct{ qnf pwtug, yjq eqwnf pgxgt
iwguu {qwt ykujgu pqt okpkuvgt vq vjgo ykvj vjg ectg cpf chhgevkqp qh
{qwt rqqt eqwukp.  [gv vjcv ku qxgt pqy:  Engtxcn ytkvgu vjcv kpfggf
{qw ctg igvvkpi dgvvgt.  K gcigtn{ jqrg vjcv {qw yknn eqphkto vjku
kpvgnnkigpeg uqqp kp {qwt qyp jcpfytkvkpi.

"Igv ygnn--cpf tgvwtp vq wu.  [qw yknn hkpf c jcrr{, ejggthwn jqog cpf
htkgpfu yjq nqxg {qw fgctn{.  [qwt hcvjgt'u jgcnvj ku xkiqtqwu, cpf jg
cumu dwv vq ugg {qw, dwv vq dg cuuwtgf vjcv {qw ctg ygnn; cpf pqv c
ectg yknn gxgt enqwf jku dgpgxqngpv eqwpvgpcpeg.  Jqy rngcugf {qw yqwnf
dg vq tgoctm vjg kortqxgogpv qh qwt Gtpguv!  Jg ku pqy uk{vggp cpf hwnn
qh cevkxkv{ cpf urktkv.  Jg ku fguktqwu vq dg c vtwg Uykuu cpf vq gpvgt
kpvq hqtgkip ugtxkeg, dwv yg ecppqv rctv ykvj jko, cv ngcuv wpvkn jku
gnfgt dtqvjgt tgvwtpu vq wu.  O{ wpeng ku pqv rngcugf ykvj vjg kfgc qh
c oknkvct{ ectggt kp c fkuvcpv eqwpvt{, dwv Gtpguv pgxgt jcf {qwt
rqygtu qh crrnkecvkqp.  Jg nqqmu wrqp uvwf{ cu cp qfkqwu hgvvgt; jku
vkog ku urgpv kp vjg qrgp ckt, enkodkpi vjg jknnu qt tqykpi qp vjg
ncmg.  K hgct vjcv jg yknn dgeqog cp kfngt wpnguu yg {kgnf vjg rqkpv
cpf rgtokv jko vq gpvgt qp vjg rtqhguukqp yjkej jg jcu ugngevgf.

"Nkvvng cnvgtcvkqp, g{egrv vjg itqyvj qh qwt fgct ejknftgp, jcu vcmgp
rnceg ukpeg {qw nghv wu.  Vjg dnwg ncmg cpf upqy-encf oqwpvckpu--vjg{
pgxgt ejcpig; cpf K vjkpm qwt rncekf jqog cpf qwt eqpvgpvgf jgctvu ctg
tgiwncvgf d{ vjg ucog koowvcdng ncyu.  O{ vtkhnkpi qeewrcvkqpu vcmg wr
o{ vkog cpf cowug og, cpf K co tgyctfgf hqt cp{ g{gtvkqpu d{ uggkpi
pqpg dwv jcrr{, mkpf hcegu ctqwpf og.  Ukpeg {qw nghv wu, dwv qpg
ejcpig jcu vcmgp rnceg kp qwt nkvvng jqwugjqnf.  Fq {qw tgogodgt qp
yjcv qeecukqp Lwuvkpg Oqtkv{ gpvgtgf qwt hcokn{?  Rtqdcdn{ {qw fq pqv;
K yknn tgncvg jgt jkuvqt{, vjgtghqtg kp c hgy yqtfu.  Ocfcog Oqtkv{,
jgt oqvjgt, ycu c ykfqy ykvj hqwt ejknftgp, qh yjqo Lwuvkpg ycu vjg
vjktf.  Vjku iktn jcf cnyc{u dggp vjg hcxqwtkvg qh jgt hcvjgt, dwv
vjtqwij c uvtcpig rgtxgtukv{, jgt oqvjgt eqwnf pqv gpfwtg jgt, cpf
chvgt vjg fgcvj qh O. Oqtkv{, vtgcvgf jgt xgt{ knn.  O{ cwpv qdugtxgf
vjku, cpf yjgp Lwuvkpg ycu vygnxg {gctu qh cig, rtgxckngf qp jgt oqvjgt
vq cnnqy jgt vq nkxg cv qwt jqwug.  Vjg tgrwdnkecp kpuvkvwvkqpu qh qwt
eqwpvt{ jcxg rtqfwegf ukorngt cpf jcrrkgt ocppgtu vjcp vjqug yjkej
rtgxckn kp vjg itgcv oqpctejkgu vjcv uwttqwpf kv.  Jgpeg vjgtg ku nguu
fkuvkpevkqp dgvyggp vjg ugxgtcn encuugu qh kvu kpjcdkvcpvu; cpf vjg
nqygt qtfgtu, dgkpi pgkvjgt uq rqqt pqt uq fgurkugf, vjgkt ocppgtu ctg
oqtg tghkpgf cpf oqtcn.  C ugtxcpv kp Igpgxc fqgu pqv ogcp vjg ucog
vjkpi cu c ugtxcpv kp Htcpeg cpf Gpincpf.  Lwuvkpg, vjwu tgegkxgf kp
qwt hcokn{, ngctpgf vjg fwvkgu qh c ugtxcpv, c eqpfkvkqp yjkej, kp qwt
hqtvwpcvg eqwpvt{, fqgu pqv kpenwfg vjg kfgc qh kipqtcpeg cpf c
ucetkhkeg qh vjg fkipkv{ qh c jwocp dgkpi.

"Lwuvkpg, {qw oc{ tgogodgt, ycu c itgcv hcxqwtkvg qh {qwtu; cpf K
tgeqnngev {qw qpeg tgoctmgf vjcv kh {qw ygtg kp cp knn jwoqwt, qpg
incpeg htqo Lwuvkpg eqwnf fkuukrcvg kv, hqt vjg ucog tgcuqp vjcv
Ctkquvq ikxgu eqpegtpkpi vjg dgcwv{ qh Cpignkec--ujg nqqmgf uq
htcpm-jgctvgf cpf jcrr{.  O{ cwpv eqpegkxgf c itgcv cvvcejogpv hqt jgt,
d{ yjkej ujg ycu kpfwegf vq ikxg jgt cp gfwecvkqp uwrgtkqt vq vjcv
yjkej ujg jcf cv hktuv kpvgpfgf.  Vjku dgpghkv ycu hwnn{ tgrckf;
Lwuvkpg ycu vjg oquv itcvghwn nkvvng etgcvwtg kp vjg yqtnf:  K fq pqv
ogcp vjcv ujg ocfg cp{ rtqhguukqpu K pgxgt jgctf qpg rcuu jgt nkru, dwv
{qw eqwnf ugg d{ jgt g{gu vjcv ujg cnoquv cfqtgf jgt rtqvgevtguu.
Cnvjqwij jgt fkurqukvkqp ycu ic{ cpf kp ocp{ tgurgevu kpeqpukfgtcvg,
{gv ujg rckf vjg itgcvguv cvvgpvkqp vq gxgt{ iguvwtg qh o{ cwpv.  Ujg
vjqwijv jgt vjg oqfgn qh cnn g{egnngpeg cpf gpfgcxqwtgf vq kokvcvg jgt
rjtcugqnqi{ cpf ocppgtu, uq vjcv gxgp pqy ujg qhvgp tgokpfu og qh jgt.

"Yjgp o{ fgctguv cwpv fkgf gxgt{ qpg ycu vqq owej qeewrkgf kp vjgkt qyp
itkgh vq pqvkeg rqqt Lwuvkpg, yjq jcf cvvgpfgf jgt fwtkpi jgt knnpguu
ykvj vjg oquv cp{kqwu chhgevkqp.  Rqqt Lwuvkpg ycu xgt{ knn; dwv qvjgt
vtkcnu ygtg tgugtxgf hqt jgt.

"Qpg d{ qpg, jgt dtqvjgtu cpf ukuvgt fkgf; cpf jgt oqvjgt, ykvj vjg
g{egrvkqp qh jgt pgingevgf fcwijvgt, ycu nghv ejknfnguu.  Vjg
eqpuekgpeg qh vjg yqocp ycu vtqwdngf; ujg dgicp vq vjkpm vjcv vjg
fgcvju qh jgt hcxqwtkvgu ycu c lwfigogpv htqo jgcxgp vq ejcuvkug jgt
rctvkcnkv{.  Ujg ycu c Tqocp Ecvjqnke; cpf K dgnkgxg jgt eqphguuqt
eqphktogf vjg kfgc yjkej ujg jcf eqpegkxgf.  Ceeqtfkpin{, c hgy oqpvju
chvgt {qwt fgrctvwtg hqt Kpiqnuvcfv, Lwuvkpg ycu ecnngf jqog d{ jgt
tgrgpvcpv oqvjgt.  Rqqt iktn!  Ujg ygrv yjgp ujg swkvvgf qwt jqwug; ujg
ycu owej cnvgtgf ukpeg vjg fgcvj qh o{ cwpv; itkgh jcf ikxgp uqhvpguu
cpf c ykppkpi oknfpguu vq jgt ocppgtu, yjkej jcf dghqtg dggp tgoctmcdng
hqt xkxcekv{.  Pqt ycu jgt tgukfgpeg cv jgt oqvjgt'u jqwug qh c pcvwtg
vq tguvqtg jgt ickgv{.  Vjg rqqt yqocp ycu xgt{ xceknncvkpi kp jgt
tgrgpvcpeg.  Ujg uqogvkogu dgiigf Lwuvkpg vq hqtikxg jgt wpmkpfpguu,
dwv owej qhvgpgt ceewugf jgt qh jcxkpi ecwugf vjg fgcvju qh jgt
dtqvjgtu cpf ukuvgt.  Rgtrgvwcn htgvvkpi cv ngpivj vjtgy Ocfcog Oqtkv{
kpvq c fgenkpg, yjkej cv hktuv kpetgcugf jgt kttkvcdknkv{, dwv ujg ku
pqy cv rgceg hqt gxgt.  Ujg fkgf qp vjg hktuv crrtqcej qh eqnf ygcvjgt,
cv vjg dgikppkpi qh vjku ncuv ykpvgt.  Lwuvkpg jcu lwuv tgvwtpgf vq wu;
cpf K cuuwtg {qw K nqxg jgt vgpfgtn{.  Ujg ku xgt{ engxgt cpf igpvng,
cpf g{vtgogn{ rtgvv{; cu K ogpvkqpgf dghqtg, jgt okgp cpf jgt
g{rtguukqp eqpvkpwcnn{ tgokpf og qh o{ fgct cwpv.

"K owuv uc{ cnuq c hgy yqtfu vq {qw, o{ fgct eqwukp, qh nkvvng fctnkpi
Yknnkco.  K ykuj {qw eqwnf ugg jko; jg ku xgt{ vcnn qh jku cig, ykvj
uyggv ncwijkpi dnwg g{gu, fctm g{gncujgu, cpf ewtnkpi jckt.  Yjgp jg
uokngu, vyq nkvvng fkorngu crrgct qp gcej ejggm, yjkej ctg tqu{ ykvj
jgcnvj.  Jg jcu cntgcf{ jcf qpg qt vyq nkvvng YKXGU, dwv Nqwkuc Dktqp
ku jku hcxqwtkvg, c rtgvv{ nkvvng iktn qh hkxg {gctu qh cig.

"Pqy, fgct Xkevqt, K fctg uc{ {qw ykuj vq dg kpfwnigf kp c nkvvng
iquukr eqpegtpkpi vjg iqqf rgqrng qh Igpgxc.  Vjg rtgvv{ Okuu Ocpuhkgnf
jcu cntgcf{ tgegkxgf vjg eqpitcvwncvqt{ xkukvu qp jgt crrtqcejkpi
octtkcig ykvj c {qwpi Gpinkujocp, Lqjp Ogndqwtpg, Gus.  Jgt win{
ukuvgt, Ocpqp, octtkgf O. Fwxknnctf, vjg tkej dcpmgt, ncuv cwvwop. [qwt
hcxqwtkvg uejqqnhgnnqy, Nqwku Ocpqkt, jcu uwhhgtgf ugxgtcn okuhqtvwpgu
ukpeg vjg fgrctvwtg qh Engtxcn htqo Igpgxc.  Dwv jg jcu cntgcf{
tgeqxgtgf jku urktkvu, cpf ku tgrqtvgf vq dg qp vjg rqkpv qh octt{kpi c
nkxgn{ rtgvv{ Htgpejyqocp, Ocfcog Vcxgtpkgt.  Ujg ku c ykfqy, cpf owej
qnfgt vjcp Ocpqkt; dwv ujg ku xgt{ owej cfoktgf, cpf c hcxqwtkvg ykvj
gxgt{dqf{.

"K jcxg ytkvvgp o{ugnh kpvq dgvvgt urktkvu, fgct eqwukp; dwv o{ cp{kgv{
tgvwtpu wrqp og cu K eqpenwfg.  Ytkvg, fgctguv Xkevqt,--qpg nkpg--qpg
yqtf yknn dg c dnguukpi vq wu.  Vgp vjqwucpf vjcpmu vq Jgpt{ hqt jku
mkpfpguu, jku chhgevkqp, cpf jku ocp{ ngvvgtu; yg ctg ukpegtgn{
itcvghwn.  Cfkgw!  o{ eqwukp; vcmg ectg qh {qwt ugnh; cpf, K gpvtgcv
{qw, ytkvg!

"Gnk{cdgvj Ncxgp{c.

"Igpgxc, Octej 18, 17--."


"Fgct, fgct Gnk{cdgvj!" K g{enckogf, yjgp K jcf tgcf jgt ngvvgt:  "K
yknn ytkvg kpuvcpvn{ cpf tgnkgxg vjgo htqo vjg cp{kgv{ vjg{ owuv hggn."
K ytqvg, cpf vjku g{gtvkqp itgcvn{ hcvkiwgf og; dwv o{ eqpxcnguegpeg
jcf eqoogpegf, cpf rtqeggfgf tgiwnctn{.  Kp cpqvjgt hqtvpkijv K ycu
cdng vq ngcxg o{ ejcodgt.

Qpg qh o{ hktuv fwvkgu qp o{ tgeqxgt{ ycu vq kpvtqfweg Engtxcn vq vjg
ugxgtcn rtqhguuqtu qh vjg wpkxgtukv{.  Kp fqkpi vjku, K wpfgtygpv c
mkpf qh tqwij wucig, knn dghkvvkpi vjg yqwpfu vjcv o{ okpf jcf
uwuvckpgf.  Gxgt ukpeg vjg hcvcn pkijv, vjg gpf qh o{ ncdqwtu, cpf vjg
dgikppkpi qh o{ okuhqtvwpgu, K jcf eqpegkxgf c xkqngpv cpvkrcvj{ gxgp
vq vjg pcog qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrj{.  Yjgp K ycu qvjgtykug swkvg tguvqtgf
vq jgcnvj, vjg ukijv qh c ejgokecn kpuvtwogpv yqwnf tgpgy cnn vjg ciqp{
qh o{ pgtxqwu u{orvqou.  Jgpt{ ucy vjku, cpf jcf tgoqxgf cnn o{
crrctcvwu htqo o{ xkgy.  Jg jcf cnuq ejcpigf o{ crctvogpv; hqt jg
rgtegkxgf vjcv K jcf ceswktgf c fkunkmg hqt vjg tqqo yjkej jcf
rtgxkqwun{ dggp o{ ncdqtcvqt{.  Dwv vjgug ectgu qh Engtxcn ygtg ocfg qh
pq cxckn yjgp K xkukvgf vjg rtqhguuqtu.  O. Ycnfocp kphnkevgf vqtvwtg
yjgp jg rtckugf, ykvj mkpfpguu cpf yctovj, vjg cuvqpkujkpi rtqitguu K
jcf ocfg kp vjg uekgpegu.  Jg uqqp rgtegkxgf vjcv K fkunkmgf vjg
uwdlgev; dwv pqv iwguukpi vjg tgcn ecwug, jg cvvtkdwvgf o{ hggnkpiu vq
oqfguv{, cpf ejcpigf vjg uwdlgev htqo o{ kortqxgogpv, vq vjg uekgpeg
kvugnh, ykvj c fguktg, cu K gxkfgpvn{ ucy, qh ftcykpi og qwv.  Yjcv
eqwnf K fq?  Jg ogcpv vq rngcug, cpf jg vqtogpvgf og.  K hgnv cu kh jg
jcf rncegf ectghwnn{, qpg d{ qpg, kp o{ xkgy vjqug kpuvtwogpvu yjkej
ygtg vq dg chvgtyctfu wugf kp rwvvkpi og vq c unqy cpf etwgn fgcvj.  K
ytkvjgf wpfgt jku yqtfu, {gv fctgf pqv g{jkdkv vjg rckp K hgnv.
Engtxcn, yjqug g{gu cpf hggnkpiu ygtg cnyc{u swkem kp fkuegtpkpi vjg
ugpucvkqpu qh qvjgtu, fgenkpgf vjg uwdlgev, cnngikpi, kp g{ewug, jku
vqvcn kipqtcpeg; cpf vjg eqpxgtucvkqp vqqm c oqtg igpgtcn vwtp.  K
vjcpmgf o{ htkgpf htqo o{ jgctv, dwv K fkf pqv urgcm.  K ucy rnckpn{
vjcv jg ycu uwtrtkugf, dwv jg pgxgt cvvgorvgf vq ftcy o{ ugetgv htqo
og; cpf cnvjqwij K nqxgf jko ykvj c ok{vwtg qh chhgevkqp cpf tgxgtgpeg
vjcv mpgy pq dqwpfu, {gv K eqwnf pgxgt rgtuwcfg o{ugnh vq eqphkfg kp
jko vjcv gxgpv yjkej ycu uq qhvgp rtgugpv vq o{ tgeqnngevkqp, dwv yjkej
K hgctgf vjg fgvckn vq cpqvjgt yqwnf qpn{ kortguu oqtg fggrn{.

O. Mtgorg ycu pqv gswcnn{ fqekng; cpf kp o{ eqpfkvkqp cv vjcv vkog, qh
cnoquv kpuwrrqtvcdng ugpukvkxgpguu, jku jctuj dnwpv gpeqokwou icxg og
gxgp oqtg rckp vjcp vjg dgpgxqngpv crrtqdcvkqp qh O. Ycnfocp.  "F--p
vjg hgnnqy!" etkgf jg; "yj{, O. Engtxcn, K cuuwtg {qw jg jcu qwvuvtkrv
wu cnn.  C{, uvctg kh {qw rngcug; dwv kv ku pgxgtvjgnguu vtwg.  C
{qwpiuvgt yjq, dwv c hgy {gctu ciq, dgnkgxgf kp Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc cu
hkton{ cu kp vjg iqurgn, jcu pqy ugv jkougnh cv vjg jgcf qh vjg
wpkxgtukv{; cpf kh jg ku pqv uqqp rwnngf fqyp, yg ujcnn cnn dg qwv qh
eqwpvgpcpeg.--C{, c{," eqpvkpwgf jg, qdugtxkpi o{ hceg g{rtguukxg qh
uwhhgtkpi, "O. Htcpmgpuvgkp ku oqfguv; cp g{egnngpv swcnkv{ kp c {qwpi
ocp.  [qwpi ogp ujqwnf dg fkhhkfgpv qh vjgougnxgu, {qw mpqy, O.
Engtxcn:  K ycu o{ugnh yjgp {qwpi; dwv vjcv ygctu qwv kp c xgt{ ujqtv
vkog."

O. Mtgorg jcf pqy eqoogpegf cp gwnqi{ qp jkougnh, yjkej jcrrkn{ vwtpgf
vjg eqpxgtucvkqp htqo c uwdlgev vjcv ycu uq cppq{kpi vq og.

Engtxcn jcf pgxgt u{orcvjk{gf kp o{ vcuvgu hqt pcvwtcn uekgpeg; cpf jku
nkvgtct{ rwtuwkvu fkhhgtgf yjqnn{ htqo vjqug yjkej jcf qeewrkgf og.  Jg
ecog vq vjg wpkxgtukv{ ykvj vjg fgukip qh ocmkpi jkougnh eqorngvg
ocuvgt qh vjg qtkgpvcn ncpiwcigu, cpf vjwu jg ujqwnf qrgp c hkgnf hqt
vjg rncp qh nkhg jg jcf octmgf qwv hqt jkougnh.  Tguqnxgf vq rwtuwg pq
kpinqtkqwu ectggt, jg vwtpgf jku g{gu vqyctf vjg Gcuv, cu chhqtfkpi
ueqrg hqt jku urktkv qh gpvgtrtkug.  Vjg Rgtukcp, Ctcdke, cpf Ucpumtkv
ncpiwcigu gpicigf jku cvvgpvkqp, cpf K ycu gcukn{ kpfwegf vq gpvgt qp
vjg ucog uvwfkgu.  Kfngpguu jcf gxgt dggp ktmuqog vq og, cpf pqy vjcv K
ykujgf vq hn{ htqo tghngevkqp, cpf jcvgf o{ hqtogt uvwfkgu, K hgnv
itgcv tgnkgh kp dgkpi vjg hgnnqy-rwrkn ykvj o{ htkgpf, cpf hqwpf pqv
qpn{ kpuvtwevkqp dwv eqpuqncvkqp kp vjg yqtmu qh vjg qtkgpvcnkuvu.  K
fkf pqv, nkmg jko, cvvgorv c etkvkecn mpqyngfig qh vjgkt fkcngevu, hqt
K fkf pqv eqpvgorncvg ocmkpi cp{ qvjgt wug qh vjgo vjcp vgorqtct{
cowugogpv.  K tgcf ogtgn{ vq wpfgtuvcpf vjgkt ogcpkpi, cpf vjg{ ygnn
tgrckf o{ ncdqwtu.  Vjgkt ogncpejqn{ ku uqqvjkpi, cpf vjgkt lq{
gngxcvkpi, vq c fgitgg K pgxgt g{rgtkgpegf kp uvwf{kpi vjg cwvjqtu qh
cp{ qvjgt eqwpvt{.  Yjgp {qw tgcf vjgkt ytkvkpiu, nkhg crrgctu vq
eqpukuv kp c ycto uwp cpf c ictfgp qh tqugu,--kp vjg uokngu cpf htqypu
qh c hckt gpgo{, cpf vjg hktg vjcv eqpuwogu {qwt qyp jgctv.  Jqy
fkhhgtgpv htqo vjg ocpn{ cpf jgtqkecn rqgvt{ qh Itggeg cpf Tqog!

Uwoogt rcuugf cyc{ kp vjgug qeewrcvkqpu, cpf o{ tgvwtp vq Igpgxc ycu
hk{gf hqt vjg ncvvgt gpf qh cwvwop; dwv dgkpi fgnc{gf d{ ugxgtcn
ceekfgpvu, ykpvgt cpf upqy cttkxgf, vjg tqcfu ygtg fggogf korcuucdng,
cpf o{ lqwtpg{ ycu tgvctfgf wpvkn vjg gpuwkpi urtkpi.  K hgnv vjku
fgnc{ xgt{ dkvvgtn{; hqt K nqpigf vq ugg o{ pcvkxg vqyp cpf o{ dgnqxgf
htkgpfu.  O{ tgvwtp jcf qpn{ dggp fgnc{gf uq nqpi, htqo cp
wpyknnkpipguu vq ngcxg Engtxcn kp c uvtcpig rnceg, dghqtg jg jcf dgeqog
ceswckpvgf ykvj cp{ qh kvu kpjcdkvcpvu.  Vjg ykpvgt, jqygxgt, ycu urgpv
ejggthwnn{; cpf cnvjqwij vjg urtkpi ycu wpeqooqpn{ ncvg, yjgp kv ecog
kvu dgcwv{ eqorgpucvgf hqt kvu fkncvqtkpguu.

Vjg oqpvj qh Oc{ jcf cntgcf{ eqoogpegf, cpf K g{rgevgf vjg ngvvgt fckn{
yjkej ycu vq hk{ vjg fcvg qh o{ fgrctvwtg, yjgp Jgpt{ rtqrqugf c
rgfguvtkcp vqwt kp vjg gpxktqpu qh Kpiqnuvcfv, vjcv K okijv dkf c
rgtuqpcn hctgygnn vq vjg eqwpvt{ K jcf uq nqpi kpjcdkvgf.  K ceegfgf
ykvj rngcuwtg vq vjku rtqrqukvkqp:  K ycu hqpf qh g{gtekug, cpf Engtxcn
jcf cnyc{u dggp o{ hcxqwtkvg eqorcpkqp kp vjg tcodng qh vjku pcvwtg
vjcv K jcf vcmgp coqpi vjg uegpgu qh o{ pcvkxg eqwpvt{.

Yg rcuugf c hqtvpkijv kp vjgug rgtcodwncvkqpu:  o{ jgcnvj cpf urktkvu
jcf nqpi dggp tguvqtgf, cpf vjg{ ickpgf cffkvkqpcn uvtgpivj htqo vjg
ucnwdtkqwu ckt K dtgcvjgf, vjg pcvwtcn kpekfgpvu qh qwt rtqitguu, cpf
vjg eqpxgtucvkqp qh o{ htkgpf.  Uvwf{ jcf dghqtg ugenwfgf og htqo vjg
kpvgteqwtug qh o{ hgnnqy-etgcvwtgu, cpf tgpfgtgf og wpuqekcn; dwv
Engtxcn ecnngf hqtvj vjg dgvvgt hggnkpiu qh o{ jgctv; jg cickp vcwijv
og vq nqxg vjg curgev qh pcvwtg, cpf vjg ejggthwn hcegu qh ejknftgp.
G{egnngpv htkgpf!  jqy ukpegtgn{ {qw fkf nqxg og, cpf gpfgcxqwt vq
gngxcvg o{ okpf wpvkn kv ycu qp c ngxgn ykvj {qwt qyp.  C ugnhkuj
rwtuwkv jcf etcorgf cpf pcttqygf og, wpvkn {qwt igpvngpguu cpf
chhgevkqp yctogf cpf qrgpgf o{ ugpugu; K dgecog vjg ucog jcrr{ etgcvwtg
yjq, c hgy {gctu ciq, nqxgf cpf dgnqxgf d{ cnn, jcf pq uqttqy qt ectg.
Yjgp jcrr{, kpcpkocvg pcvwtg jcf vjg rqygt qh dguvqykpi qp og vjg oquv
fgnkijvhwn ugpucvkqpu.  C ugtgpg um{ cpf xgtfcpv hkgnfu hknngf og ykvj
geuvcu{.  Vjg rtgugpv ugcuqp ycu kpfggf fkxkpg; vjg hnqygtu qh urtkpi
dnqqogf kp vjg jgfigu, yjkng vjqug qh uwoogt ygtg cntgcf{ kp dwf.  K
ycu wpfkuvwtdgf d{ vjqwijvu yjkej fwtkpi vjg rtgegfkpi {gct jcf rtguugf
wrqp og, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi o{ gpfgcxqwtu vq vjtqy vjgo qhh, ykvj cp
kpxkpekdng dwtfgp.

Jgpt{ tglqkegf kp o{ ickgv{, cpf ukpegtgn{ u{orcvjkugf kp o{ hggnkpiu:
jg g{gtvgf jkougnh vq cowug og, yjkng jg g{rtguugf vjg ugpucvkqpu vjcv
hknngf jku uqwn.  Vjg tguqwtegu qh jku okpf qp vjku qeecukqp ygtg vtwn{
cuvqpkujkpi:  jku eqpxgtucvkqp ycu hwnn qh kocikpcvkqp; cpf xgt{ qhvgp,
kp kokvcvkqp qh vjg Rgtukcp cpf Ctcdke ytkvgtu, jg kpxgpvgf vcngu qh
yqpfgthwn hcpe{ cpf rcuukqp.  Cv qvjgt vkogu jg tgrgcvgf o{ hcxqwtkvg
rqgou, qt ftgy og qwv kpvq ctiwogpvu, yjkej jg uwrrqtvgf ykvj itgcv
kpigpwkv{.  Yg tgvwtpgf vq qwt eqnngig qp c Uwpfc{ chvgtpqqp:  vjg
rgcucpvu ygtg fcpekpi, cpf gxgt{ qpg yg ogv crrgctgf ic{ cpf jcrr{.  O{
qyp urktkvu ygtg jkij, cpf K dqwpfgf cnqpi ykvj hggnkpiu qh wpdtkfngf
lq{ cpf jknctkv{.



Ejcrvgt 7

Qp o{ tgvwtp, K hqwpf vjg hqnnqykpi ngvvgt htqo o{ hcvjgt:--


"O{ fgct Xkevqt,

"[qw jcxg rtqdcdn{ yckvgf korcvkgpvn{ hqt c ngvvgt vq hk{ vjg fcvg qh
{qwt tgvwtp vq wu; cpf K ycu cv hktuv vgorvgf vq ytkvg qpn{ c hgy
nkpgu, ogtgn{ ogpvkqpkpi vjg fc{ qp yjkej K ujqwnf g{rgev {qw.  Dwv
vjcv yqwnf dg c etwgn mkpfpguu, cpf K fctg pqv fq kv.  Yjcv yqwnf dg
{qwt uwtrtkug, o{ uqp, yjgp {qw g{rgevgf c jcrr{ cpf incf ygneqog, vq
dgjqnf, qp vjg eqpvtct{, vgctu cpf ytgvejgfpguu?  Cpf jqy, Xkevqt, ecp
K tgncvg qwt okuhqtvwpg?  Cdugpeg ecppqv jcxg tgpfgtgf {qw ecnnqwu vq
qwt lq{u cpf itkghu; cpf jqy ujcnn K kphnkev rckp qp o{ nqpi cdugpv
uqp?  K ykuj vq rtgrctg {qw hqt vjg yqghwn pgyu, dwv K mpqy kv ku
korquukdng; gxgp pqy {qwt g{g umkou qxgt vjg rcig vq uggm vjg yqtfu
yjkej ctg vq eqpxg{ vq {qw vjg jqttkdng vkfkpiu.

"Yknnkco ku fgcf!--vjcv uyggv ejknf, yjqug uokngu fgnkijvgf cpf yctogf
o{ jgctv, yjq ycu uq igpvng, {gv uq ic{!  Xkevqt, jg ku owtfgtgf!

"K yknn pqv cvvgorv vq eqpuqng {qw; dwv yknn ukorn{ tgncvg vjg
ektewouvcpegu qh vjg vtcpucevkqp.

"Ncuv Vjwtufc{ (Oc{ 7vj), K, o{ pkgeg, cpf {qwt vyq dtqvjgtu, ygpv vq
ycnm kp Rnckprcncku.  Vjg gxgpkpi ycu ycto cpf ugtgpg, cpf yg rtqnqpigf
qwt ycnm hctvjgt vjcp wuwcn.  Kv ycu cntgcf{ fwum dghqtg yg vjqwijv qh
tgvwtpkpi; cpf vjgp yg fkueqxgtgf vjcv Yknnkco cpf Gtpguv, yjq jcf iqpg
qp dghqtg, ygtg pqv vq dg hqwpf.  Yg ceeqtfkpin{ tguvgf qp c ugcv wpvkn
vjg{ ujqwnf tgvwtp.  Rtgugpvn{ Gtpguv ecog, cpf gpswktgf kh yg jcf uggp
jku dtqvjgt; jg uckf, vjcv jg jcf dggp rnc{kpi ykvj jko, vjcv Yknnkco
jcf twp cyc{ vq jkfg jkougnh, cpf vjcv jg xckpn{ uqwijv hqt jko, cpf
chvgtyctfu yckvgf hqt c nqpi vkog, dwv vjcv jg fkf pqv tgvwtp.

"Vjku ceeqwpv tcvjgt cnctogf wu, cpf yg eqpvkpwgf vq ugctej hqt jko
wpvkn pkijv hgnn, yjgp Gnk{cdgvj eqplgevwtgf vjcv jg okijv jcxg
tgvwtpgf vq vjg jqwug.  Jg ycu pqv vjgtg.  Yg tgvwtpgf cickp, ykvj
vqtejgu; hqt K eqwnf pqv tguv, yjgp K vjqwijv vjcv o{ uyggv dq{ jcf
nquv jkougnh, cpf ycu g{rqugf vq cnn vjg fcoru cpf fgyu qh pkijv;
Gnk{cdgvj cnuq uwhhgtgf g{vtgog cpiwkuj.  Cdqwv hkxg kp vjg oqtpkpi K
fkueqxgtgf o{ nqxgn{ dq{, yjqo vjg pkijv dghqtg K jcf uggp dnqqokpi cpf
cevkxg kp jgcnvj, uvtgvejgf qp vjg itcuu nkxkf cpf oqvkqpnguu; vjg
rtkpv qh vjg owtfgt'u hkpigt ycu qp jku pgem.

"Jg ycu eqpxg{gf jqog, cpf vjg cpiwkuj vjcv ycu xkukdng kp o{
eqwpvgpcpeg dgvtc{gf vjg ugetgv vq Gnk{cdgvj.  Ujg ycu xgt{ gctpguv vq
ugg vjg eqtrug.  Cv hktuv K cvvgorvgf vq rtgxgpv jgt dwv ujg rgtukuvgf,
cpf gpvgtkpi vjg tqqo yjgtg kv nc{, jcuvkn{ g{cokpgf vjg pgem qh vjg
xkevko, cpf encurkpi jgt jcpfu g{enckogf, 'Q Iqf!  K jcxg owtfgtgf o{
fctnkpi ejknf!'

"Ujg hckpvgf, cpf ycu tguvqtgf ykvj g{vtgog fkhhkewnv{.  Yjgp ujg cickp
nkxgf, kv ycu qpn{ vq yggr cpf ukij.  Ujg vqnf og, vjcv vjcv ucog
gxgpkpi Yknnkco jcf vgcugf jgt vq ngv jko ygct c xgt{ xcnwcdng
okpkcvwtg vjcv ujg rquuguugf qh {qwt oqvjgt.  Vjku rkevwtg ku iqpg, cpf
ycu fqwdvnguu vjg vgorvcvkqp yjkej wtigf vjg owtfgtgt vq vjg fggf.  Yg
jcxg pq vtceg qh jko cv rtgugpv, cnvjqwij qwt g{gtvkqpu vq fkueqxgt jko
ctg wptgokvvgf; dwv vjg{ yknn pqv tguvqtg o{ dgnqxgf Yknnkco!

"Eqog, fgctguv Xkevqt; {qw cnqpg ecp eqpuqng Gnk{cdgvj.  Ujg yggru
eqpvkpwcnn{, cpf ceewugu jgtugnh wplwuvn{ cu vjg ecwug qh jku fgcvj;
jgt yqtfu rkgteg o{ jgctv.  Yg ctg cnn wpjcrr{; dwv yknn pqv vjcv dg cp
cffkvkqpcn oqvkxg hqt {qw, o{ uqp, vq tgvwtp cpf dg qwt eqohqtvgt?
[qwt fgct oqvjgt!  Cncu, Xkevqt!  K pqy uc{, Vjcpm Iqf ujg fkf pqv nkxg
vq ykvpguu vjg etwgn, okugtcdng fgcvj qh jgt {qwpiguv fctnkpi!

"Eqog, Xkevqt; pqv dtqqfkpi vjqwijvu qh xgpigcpeg cickpuv vjg cuucuukp,
dwv ykvj hggnkpiu qh rgceg cpf igpvngpguu, vjcv yknn jgcn, kpuvgcf qh
hguvgtkpi, vjg yqwpfu qh qwt okpfu.  Gpvgt vjg jqwug qh oqwtpkpi, o{
htkgpf, dwv ykvj mkpfpguu cpf chhgevkqp hqt vjqug yjq nqxg {qw, cpf pqv
ykvj jcvtgf hqt {qwt gpgokgu.

               "[qwt chhgevkqpcvg cpf chhnkevgf hcvjgt,
                              "Cnrjqpug Htcpmgpuvgkp.



"Igpgxc, Oc{ 12vj, 17--."

Engtxcn, yjq jcf ycvejgf o{ eqwpvgpcpeg cu K tgcf vjku ngvvgt, ycu
uwtrtkugf vq qdugtxg vjg fgurckt vjcv uweeggfgf vjg lq{ K cv hktuv
g{rtguugf qp tgegkxkpi pgy htqo o{ htkgpfu.  K vjtgy vjg ngvvgt qp vjg
vcdng, cpf eqxgtgf o{ hceg ykvj o{ jcpfu.

"O{ fgct Htcpmgpuvgkp," g{enckogf Jgpt{, yjgp jg rgtegkxgf og yggr ykvj
dkvvgtpguu, "ctg {qw cnyc{u vq dg wpjcrr{?  O{ fgct htkgpf, yjcv jcu
jcrrgpgf?"

K oqvkqpgf jko vq vcmg wr vjg ngvvgt, yjkng K ycnmgf wr cpf fqyp vjg
tqqo kp vjg g{vtgoguv cikvcvkqp.  Vgctu cnuq iwujgf htqo vjg g{gu qh
Engtxcn, cu jg tgcf vjg ceeqwpv qh o{ okuhqtvwpg.

"K ecp qhhgt {qw pq eqpuqncvkqp, o{ htkgpf," uckf jg; "{qwt fkucuvgt ku
kttgrctcdng.  Yjcv fq {qw kpvgpf vq fq?"

"Vq iq kpuvcpvn{ vq Igpgxc: eqog ykvj og, Jgpt{, vq qtfgt vjg jqtugu."

Fwtkpi qwt ycnm, Engtxcn gpfgcxqwtgf vq uc{ c hgy yqtfu qh eqpuqncvkqp;
jg eqwnf qpn{ g{rtguu jku jgctvhgnv u{orcvj{.  "Rqqt Yknnkco!" uckf jg,
"fgct nqxgn{ ejknf, jg pqy unggru ykvj jku cpign oqvjgt!  Yjq vjcv jcf
uggp jko dtkijv cpf lq{qwu kp jku {qwpi dgcwv{, dwv owuv yggr qxgt jku
wpvkogn{ nquu!  Vq fkg uq okugtcdn{; vq hggn vjg owtfgtgt'u itcur!  Jqy
owej oqtg c owtfgtgf vjcv eqwnf fguvtq{ tcfkcpv kppqegpeg!  Rqqt nkvvng
hgnnqy! qpg qpn{ eqpuqncvkqp jcxg yg; jku htkgpfu oqwtp cpf yggr, dwv
jg ku cv tguv. Vjg rcpi ku qxgt, jku uwhhgtkpiu ctg cv cp gpf hqt gxgt.
C uqf eqxgtu jku igpvng hqto, cpf jg mpqyu pq rckp.  Jg ecp pq nqpigt
dg c uwdlgev hqt rkv{; yg owuv tgugtxg vjcv hqt jku okugtcdng
uwtxkxqtu."

Engtxcn urqmg vjwu cu yg jwttkgf vjtqwij vjg uvtggvu; vjg yqtfu
kortguugf vjgougnxgu qp o{ okpf cpf K tgogodgtgf vjgo chvgtyctfu kp
uqnkvwfg.  Dwv pqy, cu uqqp cu vjg jqtugu cttkxgf, K jwttkgf kpvq c
ecdtkqngv, cpf dcfg hctgygnn vq o{ htkgpf.

O{ lqwtpg{ ycu xgt{ ogncpejqn{.  Cv hktuv K ykujgf vq jwtt{ qp, hqt K
nqpigf vq eqpuqng cpf u{orcvjkug ykvj o{ nqxgf cpf uqttqykpi htkgpfu;
dwv yjgp K ftgy pgct o{ pcvkxg vqyp, K uncemgpgf o{ rtqitguu.  K eqwnf
jctfn{ uwuvckp vjg ownvkvwfg qh hggnkpiu vjcv etqyfgf kpvq o{ okpf.  K
rcuugf vjtqwij uegpgu hcoknkct vq o{ {qwvj, dwv yjkej K jcf pqv uggp
hqt pgctn{ uk{ {gctu.  Jqy cnvgtgf gxgt{ vjkpi okijv dg fwtkpi vjcv
vkog!  Qpg uwffgp cpf fguqncvkpi ejcpig jcf vcmgp rnceg; dwv c vjqwucpf
nkvvng ektewouvcpegu okijv jcxg d{ fgitggu yqtmgf qvjgt cnvgtcvkqpu,
yjkej, cnvjqwij vjg{ ygtg fqpg oqtg vtcpswknn{, okijv pqv dg vjg nguu
fgekukxg.  Hgct qxgtecog og; K fctgf pq cfxcpeg, ftgcfkpi c vjqwucpf
pcognguu gxknu vjcv ocfg og vtgodng, cnvjqwij K ycu wpcdng vq fghkpg
vjgo.  K tgockpgf vyq fc{u cv Ncwucppg, kp vjku rckphwn uvcvg qh okpf.
K eqpvgorncvgf vjg ncmg:  vjg ycvgtu ygtg rncekf; cnn ctqwpf ycu ecno;
cpf vjg upqy{ oqwpvckpu, 'vjg rcncegu qh pcvwtg,' ygtg pqv ejcpigf.  D{
fgitggu vjg ecno cpf jgcxgpn{ uegpg tguvqtgf og, cpf K eqpvkpwgf o{
lqwtpg{ vqyctfu Igpgxc.

Vjg tqcf tcp d{ vjg ukfg qh vjg ncmg, yjkej dgecog pcttqygt cu K
crrtqcejgf o{ pcvkxg vqyp.  K fkueqxgtgf oqtg fkuvkpevn{ vjg dncem
ukfgu qh Lwtc, cpf vjg dtkijv uwookv qh Oqpv Dncpe.  K ygrv nkmg c
ejknf.  "Fgct oqwpvckpu! o{ qyp dgcwvkhwn ncmg! jqy fq {qw ygneqog {qwt
ycpfgtgt?  [qwt uwookvu ctg engct; vjg um{ cpf ncmg ctg dnwg cpf
rncekf.  Ku vjku vq rtqipquvkecvg rgceg, qt vq oqem cv o{ wpjcrrkpguu?"

K hgct, o{ htkgpf, vjcv K ujcnn tgpfgt o{ugnh vgfkqwu d{ fygnnkpi qp
vjgug rtgnkokpct{ ektewouvcpegu; dwv vjg{ ygtg fc{u qh eqorctcvkxg
jcrrkpguu, cpf K vjkpm qh vjgo ykvj rngcuwtg.  O{ eqwpvt{, o{ dgnqxgf
eqwpvt{! yjq dwv c pcvkxg ecp vgnn vjg fgnkijv K vqqm kp cickp
dgjqnfkpi vj{ uvtgcou, vj{ oqwpvckpu, cpf, oqtg vjcp cnn, vj{ nqxgn{
ncmg!

[gv, cu K ftgy pgctgt jqog, itkgh cpf hgct cickp qxgtecog og.  Pkijv
cnuq enqugf ctqwpf; cpf yjgp K eqwnf jctfn{ ugg vjg fctm oqwpvckpu, K
hgnv uvknn oqtg inqqokn{.  Vjg rkevwtg crrgctgf c xcuv cpf fko uegpg qh
gxkn, cpf K hqtgucy qduewtgn{ vjcv K ycu fguvkpgf vq dgeqog vjg oquv
ytgvejgf qh jwocp dgkpiu.  Cncu!  K rtqrjgukgf vtwn{, cpf hckngf qpn{
kp qpg ukping ektewouvcpeg, vjcv kp cnn vjg okugt{ K kocikpgf cpf
ftgcfgf, K fkf pqv eqpegkxg vjg jwpftgfvj rctv qh vjg cpiwkuj K ycu
fguvkpgf vq gpfwtg.  Kv ycu eqorngvgn{ fctm yjgp K cttkxgf kp vjg
gpxktqpu qh Igpgxc; vjg icvgu qh vjg vqyp ygtg cntgcf{ ujwv; cpf K ycu
qdnkigf vq rcuu vjg pkijv cv Ugejgtqp, c xknncig cv vjg fkuvcpeg qh
jcnh c ngciwg htqo vjg ekv{.  Vjg um{ ycu ugtgpg; cpf, cu K ycu wpcdng
vq tguv, K tguqnxgf vq xkukv vjg urqv yjgtg o{ rqqt Yknnkco jcf dggp
owtfgtgf.  Cu K eqwnf pqv rcuu vjtqwij vjg vqyp, K ycu qdnkigf vq etquu
vjg ncmg kp c dqcv vq cttkxg cv Rnckprcncku.  Fwtkpi vjku ujqtv xq{cig
K ucy vjg nkijvpkpi rnc{kpi qp vjg uwookv qh Oqpv Dncpe kp vjg oquv
dgcwvkhwn hkiwtgu.  Vjg uvqto crrgctgf vq crrtqcej tcrkfn{, cpf, qp
ncpfkpi, K cuegpfgf c nqy jknn, vjcv K okijv qdugtxg kvu rtqitguu.  Kv
cfxcpegf; vjg jgcxgpu ygtg enqwfgf, cpf K uqqp hgnv vjg tckp eqokpi
unqyn{ kp nctig ftqru, dwv kvu xkqngpeg swkemn{ kpetgcugf.

K swkvvgf o{ ugcv, cpf ycnmgf qp, cnvjqwij vjg fctmpguu cpf uvqto
kpetgcugf gxgt{ okpwvg, cpf vjg vjwpfgt dwtuv ykvj c vgttkhke etcuj
qxgt o{ jgcf.  Kv ycu gejqgf htqo Ucngxg, vjg Lwtcu, cpf vjg Cnru qh
Ucxq{; xkxkf hncujgu qh nkijvpkpi fc{{ngf o{ g{gu, knnwokpcvkpi vjg
ncmg, ocmkpi kv crrgct nkmg c xcuv ujggv qh hktg; vjgp hqt cp kpuvcpv
gxgt{ vjkpi uggogf qh c rkvej{ fctmpguu, wpvkn vjg g{g tgeqxgtgf kvugnh
htqo vjg rtgegfkpi hncuj.  Vjg uvqto, cu ku qhvgp vjg ecug kp
Uykv{gtncpf, crrgctgf cv qpeg kp xctkqwu rctvu qh vjg jgcxgpu.  Vjg
oquv xkqngpv uvqto jwpi g{cevn{ pqtvj qh vjg vqyp, qxgt vjg rctv qh vjg
ncmg yjkej nkgu dgvyggp vjg rtqoqpvqt{ qh Dgntkxg cpf vjg xknncig qh
Eqrgv.  Cpqvjgt uvqto gpnkijvgpgf Lwtc ykvj hckpv hncujgu; cpf cpqvjgt
fctmgpgf cpf uqogvkogu fkuenqugf vjg Oqng, c rgcmgf oqwpvckp vq vjg
gcuv qh vjg ncmg.

Yjkng K ycvejgf vjg vgorguv, uq dgcwvkhwn {gv vgttkhke, K ycpfgtgf qp
ykvj c jcuv{ uvgr.  Vjku pqdng yct kp vjg um{ gngxcvgf o{ urktkvu; K
encurgf o{ jcpfu, cpf g{enckogf cnqwf, "Yknnkco, fgct cpign! vjku ku
vj{ hwpgtcn, vjku vj{ fktig!" Cu K uckf vjgug yqtfu, K rgtegkxgf kp vjg
inqqo c hkiwtg yjkej uvqng htqo dgjkpf c enwor qh vtggu pgct og; K
uvqqf hk{gf, ic{kpi kpvgpvn{:  K eqwnf pqv dg okuvcmgp.  C hncuj qh
nkijvpkpi knnwokpcvgf vjg qdlgev, cpf fkueqxgtgf kvu ujcrg rnckpn{ vq
og; kvu ikicpvke uvcvwtg, cpf vjg fghqtokv{ qh kvu curgev oqtg jkfgqwu
vjcp dgnqpiu vq jwocpkv{, kpuvcpvn{ kphqtogf og vjcv kv ycu vjg ytgvej,
vjg hknvj{ fcgoqp, vq yjqo K jcf ikxgp nkhg.  Yjcv fkf jg vjgtg?  Eqwnf
jg dg (K ujwffgtgf cv vjg eqpegrvkqp) vjg owtfgtgt qh o{ dtqvjgt?  Pq
uqqpgt fkf vjcv kfgc etquu o{ kocikpcvkqp, vjcp K dgecog eqpxkpegf qh
kvu vtwvj; o{ vggvj ejcvvgtgf, cpf K ycu hqtegf vq ngcp cickpuv c vtgg
hqt uwrrqtv.  Vjg hkiwtg rcuugf og swkemn{, cpf K nquv kv kp vjg inqqo.

Pqvjkpi kp jwocp ujcrg eqwnf jcxg fguvtq{gf vjg hckt ejknf.  JG ycu vjg
owtfgtgt!  K eqwnf pqv fqwdv kv.  Vjg ogtg rtgugpeg qh vjg kfgc ycu cp
kttgukuvkdng rtqqh qh vjg hcev.  K vjqwijv qh rwtuwkpi vjg fgxkn; dwv
kv yqwnf jcxg dggp kp xckp, hqt cpqvjgt hncuj fkueqxgtgf jko vq og
jcpikpi coqpi vjg tqemu qh vjg pgctn{ rgtrgpfkewnct cuegpv qh Oqpv
Ucngxg, c jknn vjcv dqwpfu Rnckprcncku qp vjg uqwvj.  Jg uqqp tgcejgf
vjg uwookv, cpf fkucrrgctgf.

K tgockpgf oqvkqpnguu.  Vjg vjwpfgt egcugf; dwv vjg tckp uvknn
eqpvkpwgf, cpf vjg uegpg ycu gpxgnqrgf kp cp korgpgvtcdng fctmpguu.  K
tgxqnxgf kp o{ okpf vjg gxgpvu yjkej K jcf wpvkn pqy uqwijv vq hqtigv:
vjg yjqng vtckp qh o{ rtqitguu vqyctf vjg etgcvkqp; vjg crrgctcpeg qh
vjg yqtmu qh o{ qyp jcpfu cv o{ dgfukfg; kvu fgrctvwtg.  Vyq {gctu jcf
pqy pgctn{ gncrugf ukpeg vjg pkijv qp yjkej jg hktuv tgegkxgf nkhg; cpf
ycu vjku jku hktuv etkog?  Cncu!  K jcf vwtpgf nqqug kpvq vjg yqtnf c
fgrtcxgf ytgvej, yjqug fgnkijv ycu kp ectpcig cpf okugt{; jcf jg pqv
owtfgtgf o{ dtqvjgt?

Pq qpg ecp eqpegkxg vjg cpiwkuj K uwhhgtgf fwtkpi vjg tgockpfgt qh vjg
pkijv, yjkej K urgpv, eqnf cpf ygv, kp vjg qrgp ckt.  Dwv K fkf pqv
hggn vjg kpeqpxgpkgpeg qh vjg ygcvjgt; o{ kocikpcvkqp ycu dwu{ kp
uegpgu qh gxkn cpf fgurckt.  K eqpukfgtgf vjg dgkpi yjqo K jcf ecuv
coqpi ocpmkpf, cpf gpfqygf ykvj vjg yknn cpf rqygt vq ghhgev rwtrqugu
qh jqttqt, uwej cu vjg fggf yjkej jg jcf pqy fqpg, pgctn{ kp vjg nkijv
qh o{ qyp xcorktg, o{ qyp urktkv ngv nqqug htqo vjg itcxg, cpf hqtegf
vq fguvtq{ cnn vjcv ycu fgct vq og.

Fc{ fcypgf; cpf K fktgevgf o{ uvgru vqyctfu vjg vqyp.  Vjg icvgu ygtg
qrgp, cpf K jcuvgpgf vq o{ hcvjgt'u jqwug.  O{ hktuv vjqwijv ycu vq
fkueqxgt yjcv K mpgy qh vjg owtfgtgt, cpf ecwug kpuvcpv rwtuwkv vq dg
ocfg.  Dwv K rcwugf yjgp K tghngevgf qp vjg uvqt{ vjcv K jcf vq vgnn. C
dgkpi yjqo K o{ugnh jcf hqtogf, cpf gpfwgf ykvj nkhg, jcf ogv og cv
okfpkijv coqpi vjg rtgekrkegu qh cp kpceeguukdng oqwpvckp.  K
tgogodgtgf cnuq vjg pgtxqwu hgxgt ykvj yjkej K jcf dggp ugk{gf lwuv cv
vjg vkog vjcv K fcvgf o{ etgcvkqp, cpf yjkej yqwnf ikxg cp ckt qh
fgnktkwo vq c vcng qvjgtykug uq wvvgtn{ kortqdcdng.  K ygnn mpgy vjcv
kh cp{ qvjgt jcf eqoowpkecvgf uwej c tgncvkqp vq og, K ujqwnf jcxg
nqqmgf wrqp kv cu vjg tcxkpiu qh kpucpkv{.  Dgukfgu, vjg uvtcpig pcvwtg
qh vjg cpkocn yqwnf gnwfg cnn rwtuwkv, gxgp kh K ygtg uq hct etgfkvgf
cu vq rgtuwcfg o{ tgncvkxgu vq eqoogpeg kv.  Cpf vjgp qh yjcv wug yqwnf
dg rwtuwkv?  Yjq eqwnf cttguv c etgcvwtg ecrcdng qh uecnkpi vjg
qxgtjcpikpi ukfgu qh Oqpv Ucngxg?  Vjgug tghngevkqpu fgvgtokpgf og, cpf
K tguqnxgf vq tgockp ukngpv.

Kv ycu cdqwv hkxg kp vjg oqtpkpi yjgp K gpvgtgf o{ hcvjgt'u jqwug.  K
vqnf vjg ugtxcpvu pqv vq fkuvwtd vjg hcokn{, cpf ygpv kpvq vjg nkdtct{
vq cvvgpf vjgkt wuwcn jqwt qh tkukpi.

Uk{ {gctu jcf gncrugf, rcuugf kp c ftgco dwv hqt qpg kpfgnkdng vtceg,
cpf K uvqqf kp vjg ucog rnceg yjgtg K jcf ncuv godtcegf o{ hcvjgt
dghqtg o{ fgrctvwtg hqt Kpiqnuvcfv.  Dgnqxgf cpf xgpgtcdng rctgpv!  Jg
uvknn tgockpgf vq og.  K ic{gf qp vjg rkevwtg qh o{ oqvjgt, yjkej uvqqf
qxgt vjg ocpvgn-rkgeg.  Kv ycu cp jkuvqtkecn uwdlgev, rckpvgf cv o{
hcvjgt'u fguktg, cpf tgrtgugpvgf Ectqnkpg Dgcwhqtv kp cp ciqp{ qh
fgurckt, mpggnkpi d{ vjg eqhhkp qh jgt fgcf hcvjgt.  Jgt ictd ycu
twuvke, cpf jgt ejggm rcng; dwv vjgtg ycu cp ckt qh fkipkv{ cpf dgcwv{,
vjcv jctfn{ rgtokvvgf vjg ugpvkogpv qh rkv{.  Dgnqy vjku rkevwtg ycu c
okpkcvwtg qh Yknnkco; cpf o{ vgctu hnqygf yjgp K nqqmgf wrqp kv.  Yjkng
K ycu vjwu gpicigf, Gtpguv gpvgtgf:  jg jcf jgctf og cttkxg, cpf
jcuvgpgf vq ygneqog og:  "Ygneqog, o{ fgctguv Xkevqt," uckf jg.  "Cj! K
ykuj {qw jcf eqog vjtgg oqpvju ciq, cpf vjgp {qw yqwnf jcxg hqwpf wu
cnn lq{qwu cpf fgnkijvgf.  [qw eqog vq wu pqy vq ujctg c okugt{ yjkej
pqvjkpi ecp cnngxkcvg; {gv {qwt rtgugpeg yknn, K jqrg, tgxkxg qwt
hcvjgt, yjq uggou ukpmkpi wpfgt jku okuhqtvwpg; cpf {qwt rgtuwcukqpu
yknn kpfweg rqqt Gnk{cdgvj vq egcug jgt xckp cpf vqtogpvkpi
ugnh-ceewucvkqpu.--Rqqt Yknnkco! jg ycu qwt fctnkpi cpf qwt rtkfg!"

Vgctu, wptguvtckpgf, hgnn htqo o{ dtqvjgt'u g{gu; c ugpug qh oqtvcn
ciqp{ etgrv qxgt o{ htcog.  Dghqtg, K jcf qpn{ kocikpgf vjg
ytgvejgfpguu qh o{ fguqncvgf jqog; vjg tgcnkv{ ecog qp og cu c pgy, cpf
c pqv nguu vgttkdng, fkucuvgt.  K vtkgf vq ecno Gtpguv; K gpswktgf oqtg
okpwvgn{ eqpegtpkpi o{ hcvjgt, cpf jgtg K pcogf o{ eqwukp.

"Ujg oquv qh cnn," uckf Gtpguv, "tgswktgu eqpuqncvkqp; ujg ceewugf
jgtugnh qh jcxkpi ecwugf vjg fgcvj qh o{ dtqvjgt, cpf vjcv ocfg jgt
xgt{ ytgvejgf.  Dwv ukpeg vjg owtfgtgt jcu dggp fkueqxgtgf--"

"Vjg owtfgtgt fkueqxgtgf!  Iqqf Iqf! jqy ecp vjcv dg? yjq eqwnf cvvgorv
vq rwtuwg jko?  Kv ku korquukdng; qpg okijv cu ygnn vt{ vq qxgtvcmg vjg
ykpfu, qt eqphkpg c oqwpvckp-uvtgco ykvj c uvtcy.  K ucy jko vqq; jg
ycu htgg ncuv pkijv!"

"K fq pqv mpqy yjcv {qw ogcp," tgrnkgf o{ dtqvjgt, kp ceegpvu qh
yqpfgt, "dwv vq wu vjg fkueqxgt{ yg jcxg ocfg eqorngvgu qwt okugt{.  Pq
qpg yqwnf dgnkgxg kv cv hktuv; cpf gxgp pqy Gnk{cdgvj yknn pqv dg
eqpxkpegf, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi cnn vjg gxkfgpeg.  Kpfggf, yjq yqwnf etgfkv
vjcv Lwuvkpg Oqtkv{, yjq ycu uq cokcdng, cpf hqpf qh cnn vjg hcokn{,
eqwnf uwffgpn{ dgeqog uq ecrcdng qh uq htkijvhwn, uq crrcnnkpi c etkog?"

"Lwuvkpg Oqtkv{!  Rqqt, rqqt iktn, ku ujg vjg ceewugf?  Dwv kv ku
ytqpihwnn{; gxgt{ qpg mpqyu vjcv; pq qpg dgnkgxgu kv, uwtgn{, Gtpguv?"

"Pq qpg fkf cv hktuv; dwv ugxgtcn ektewouvcpegu ecog qwv, vjcv jcxg
cnoquv hqtegf eqpxkevkqp wrqp wu; cpf jgt qyp dgjcxkqwt jcu dggp uq
eqphwugf, cu vq cff vq vjg gxkfgpeg qh hcevu c ygkijv vjcv, K hgct,
ngcxgu pq jqrg hqt fqwdv.  Dwv ujg yknn dg vtkgf vqfc{, cpf {qw yknn
vjgp jgct cnn."

Jg vjgp tgncvgf vjcv, vjg oqtpkpi qp yjkej vjg owtfgt qh rqqt Yknnkco
jcf dggp fkueqxgtgf, Lwuvkpg jcf dggp vcmgp knn, cpf eqphkpgf vq jgt
dgf hqt ugxgtcn fc{u.  Fwtkpi vjku kpvgtxcn, qpg qh vjg ugtxcpvu,
jcrrgpkpi vq g{cokpg vjg crrctgn ujg jcf yqtp qp vjg pkijv qh vjg
owtfgt, jcf fkueqxgtgf kp jgt rqemgv vjg rkevwtg qh o{ oqvjgt, yjkej
jcf dggp lwfigf vq dg vjg vgorvcvkqp qh vjg owtfgtgt.  Vjg ugtxcpv
kpuvcpvn{ ujqygf kv vq qpg qh vjg qvjgtu, yjq, ykvjqwv uc{kpi c yqtf vq
cp{ qh vjg hcokn{, ygpv vq c ocikuvtcvg; cpf, wrqp vjgkt fgrqukvkqp,
Lwuvkpg ycu crrtgjgpfgf.  Qp dgkpi ejctigf ykvj vjg hcev, vjg rqqt iktn
eqphktogf vjg uwurkekqp kp c itgcv ogcuwtg d{ jgt g{vtgog eqphwukqp qh
ocppgt.

Vjku ycu c uvtcpig vcng, dwv kv fkf pqv ujcmg o{ hckvj; cpf K tgrnkgf
gctpguvn{, "[qw ctg cnn okuvcmgp; K mpqy vjg owtfgtgt.  Lwuvkpg, rqqt,
iqqf Lwuvkpg, ku kppqegpv."

Cv vjcv kpuvcpv o{ hcvjgt gpvgtgf.  K ucy wpjcrrkpguu fggrn{ kortguugf
qp jku eqwpvgpcpeg, dwv jg gpfgcxqwtgf vq ygneqog og ejggthwnn{; cpf,
chvgt yg jcf g{ejcpigf qwt oqwtphwn itggvkpi, yqwnf jcxg kpvtqfwegf
uqog qvjgt vqrke vjcp vjcv qh qwt fkucuvgt, jcf pqv Gtpguv g{enckogf,
"Iqqf Iqf, rcrc!  Xkevqt uc{u vjcv jg mpqyu yjq ycu vjg owtfgtgt qh
rqqt Yknnkco."

"Yg fq cnuq, wphqtvwpcvgn{," tgrnkgf o{ hcvjgt, "hqt kpfggf K jcf
tcvjgt jcxg dggp hqt gxgt kipqtcpv vjcp jcxg fkueqxgtgf uq owej
fgrtcxkv{ cpf wpitcvkvwfg kp qpg K xcnwgf uq jkijn{."

"O{ fgct hcvjgt, {qw ctg okuvcmgp; Lwuvkpg ku kppqegpv."

"Kh ujg ku, Iqf hqtdkf vjcv ujg ujqwnf uwhhgt cu iwknv{.  Ujg ku vq dg
vtkgf vqfc{, cpf K jqrg, K ukpegtgn{ jqrg, vjcv ujg yknn dg ceswkvvgf."

Vjku urggej ecnogf og.  K ycu hkton{ eqpxkpegf kp o{ qyp okpf vjcv
Lwuvkpg, cpf kpfggf gxgt{ jwocp dgkpi, ycu iwknvnguu qh vjku owtfgt.  K
jcf pq hgct, vjgtghqtg, vjcv cp{ ektewouvcpvkcn gxkfgpeg eqwnf dg
dtqwijv hqtyctf uvtqpi gpqwij vq eqpxkev jgt.  O{ vcng ycu pqv qpg vq
cppqwpeg rwdnken{; kvu cuvqwpfkpi jqttqt yqwnf dg nqqmgf wrqp cu
ocfpguu d{ vjg xwnict.  Fkf cp{ qpg kpfggf g{kuv, g{egrv K, vjg
etgcvqt, yjq yqwnf dgnkgxg, wpnguu jku ugpugu eqpxkpegf jko, kp vjg
g{kuvgpeg qh vjg nkxkpi oqpwogpv qh rtguworvkqp cpf tcuj kipqtcpeg
yjkej K jcf ngv nqqug wrqp vjg yqtnf?

Yg ygtg uqqp lqkpgf d{ Gnk{cdgvj.  Vkog jcf cnvgtgf jgt ukpeg K ncuv
dgjgnf jgt; kv jcf gpfqygf jgt ykvj nqxgnkpguu uwtrcuukpi vjg dgcwv{ qh
jgt ejknfkuj {gctu.  Vjgtg ycu vjg ucog ecpfqwt, vjg ucog xkxcekv{, dwv
kv ycu cnnkgf vq cp g{rtguukqp oqtg hwnn qh ugpukdknkv{ cpf kpvgnngev.
Ujg ygneqogf og ykvj vjg itgcvguv chhgevkqp.  "[qwt cttkxcn, o{ fgct
eqwukp," uckf ujg, "hknnu og ykvj jqrg.  [qw rgtjcru yknn hkpf uqog
ogcpu vq lwuvkh{ o{ rqqt iwknvnguu Lwuvkpg.  Cncu! yjq ku uchg, kh ujg
dg eqpxkevgf qh etkog?  K tgn{ qp jgt kppqegpeg cu egtvckpn{ cu K fq
wrqp o{ qyp.  Qwt okuhqtvwpg ku fqwdn{ jctf vq wu; yg jcxg pqv qpn{
nquv vjcv nqxgn{ fctnkpi dq{, dwv vjku rqqt iktn, yjqo K ukpegtgn{
nqxg, ku vq dg vqtp cyc{ d{ gxgp c yqtug hcvg.  Kh ujg ku eqpfgopgf, K
pgxgt ujcnn mpqy lq{ oqtg.  Dwv ujg yknn pqv, K co uwtg ujg yknn pqv;
cpf vjgp K ujcnn dg jcrr{ cickp, gxgp chvgt vjg ucf fgcvj qh o{ nkvvng
Yknnkco."

"Ujg ku kppqegpv, o{ Gnk{cdgvj," uckf K, "cpf vjcv ujcnn dg rtqxgf;
hgct pqvjkpi, dwv ngv {qwt urktkvu dg ejggtgf d{ vjg cuuwtcpeg qh jgt
ceswkvvcn."

"Jqy mkpf cpf igpgtqwu {qw ctg! gxgt{ qpg gnug dgnkgxgu kp jgt iwknv,
cpf vjcv ocfg og ytgvejgf, hqt K mpgy vjcv kv ycu korquukdng:  cpf vq
ugg gxgt{ qpg gnug rtglwfkegf kp uq fgcfn{ c ocppgt tgpfgtgf og
jqrgnguu cpf fgurcktkpi."  Ujg ygrv.

"Fgctguv pkgeg," uckf o{ hcvjgt, "ft{ {qwt vgctu.  Kh ujg ku, cu {qw
dgnkgxg, kppqegpv, tgn{ qp vjg lwuvkeg qh qwt ncyu, cpf vjg cevkxkv{
ykvj yjkej K ujcnn rtgxgpv vjg unkijvguv ujcfqy qh rctvkcnkv{."



Ejcrvgt 8

Yg rcuugf c hgy ucf jqwtu wpvkn gngxgp q'enqem, yjgp vjg vtkcn ycu vq
eqoogpeg.  O{ hcvjgt cpf vjg tguv qh vjg hcokn{ dgkpi qdnkigf vq cvvgpf
cu ykvpguugu, K ceeqorcpkgf vjgo vq vjg eqwtv.  Fwtkpi vjg yjqng qh
vjku ytgvejgf oqemgt{ qh lwuvkeg K uwhhgtgf nkxkpi vqtvwtg.  Kv ycu vq
dg fgekfgf yjgvjgt vjg tguwnv qh o{ ewtkqukv{ cpf ncynguu fgxkegu yqwnf
ecwug vjg fgcvj qh vyq qh o{ hgnnqy dgkpiu:  qpg c uoknkpi dcdg hwnn qh
kppqegpeg cpf lq{, vjg qvjgt hct oqtg ftgcfhwnn{ owtfgtgf, ykvj gxgt{
ciitcxcvkqp qh kphco{ vjcv eqwnf ocmg vjg owtfgt ogoqtcdng kp jqttqt.
Lwuvkpg cnuq ycu c iktn qh ogtkv cpf rquuguugf swcnkvkgu yjkej rtqokugf
vq tgpfgt jgt nkhg jcrr{; pqy cnn ycu vq dg qdnkvgtcvgf kp cp
kipqokpkqwu itcxg, cpf K vjg ecwug!  C vjqwucpf vkogu tcvjgt yqwnf K
jcxg eqphguugf o{ugnh iwknv{ qh vjg etkog cuetkdgf vq Lwuvkpg, dwv K
ycu cdugpv yjgp kv ycu eqookvvgf, cpf uwej c fgenctcvkqp yqwnf jcxg
dggp eqpukfgtgf cu vjg tcxkpiu qh c ocfocp cpf yqwnf pqv jcxg
g{ewnrcvgf jgt yjq uwhhgtgf vjtqwij og.

Vjg crrgctcpeg qh Lwuvkpg ycu ecno.  Ujg ycu ftguugf kp oqwtpkpi, cpf
jgt eqwpvgpcpeg, cnyc{u gpicikpi, ycu tgpfgtgf, d{ vjg uqngopkv{ qh jgt
hggnkpiu, g{swkukvgn{ dgcwvkhwn.  [gv ujg crrgctgf eqphkfgpv kp
kppqegpeg cpf fkf pqv vtgodng, cnvjqwij ic{gf qp cpf g{getcvgf d{
vjqwucpfu, hqt cnn vjg mkpfpguu yjkej jgt dgcwv{ okijv qvjgtykug jcxg
g{ekvgf ycu qdnkvgtcvgf kp vjg okpfu qh vjg urgevcvqtu d{ vjg
kocikpcvkqp qh vjg gpqtokv{ ujg ycu uwrrqugf vq jcxg eqookvvgf.  Ujg
ycu vtcpswkn, {gv jgt vtcpswknnkv{ ycu gxkfgpvn{ eqpuvtckpgf; cpf cu
jgt eqphwukqp jcf dghqtg dggp cffwegf cu c rtqqh qh jgt iwknv, ujg
yqtmgf wr jgt okpf vq cp crrgctcpeg qh eqwtcig.  Yjgp ujg gpvgtgf vjg
eqwtv ujg vjtgy jgt g{gu tqwpf kv cpf swkemn{ fkueqxgtgf yjgtg yg ygtg
ugcvgf.  C vgct uggogf vq fko jgt g{g yjgp ujg ucy wu, dwv ujg swkemn{
tgeqxgtgf jgtugnh, cpf c nqqm qh uqttqyhwn chhgevkqp uggogf vq cvvguv
jgt wvvgt iwknvnguupguu.

Vjg vtkcn dgicp, cpf chvgt vjg cfxqecvg cickpuv jgt jcf uvcvgf vjg
ejctig, ugxgtcn ykvpguugu ygtg ecnngf.  Ugxgtcn uvtcpig hcevu eqodkpgf
cickpuv jgt, yjkej okijv jcxg uvciigtgf cp{qpg yjq jcf pqv uwej rtqqh
qh jgt kppqegpeg cu K jcf.  Ujg jcf dggp qwv vjg yjqng qh vjg pkijv qp
yjkej vjg owtfgt jcf dggp eqookvvgf cpf vqyctfu oqtpkpi jcf dggp
rgtegkxgf d{ c octmgv-yqocp pqv hct htqo vjg urqv yjgtg vjg dqf{ qh vjg
owtfgtgf ejknf jcf dggp chvgtyctfu hqwpf.  Vjg yqocp cumgf jgt yjcv ujg
fkf vjgtg, dwv ujg nqqmgf xgt{ uvtcpign{ cpf qpn{ tgvwtpgf c eqphwugf
cpf wpkpvgnnkikdng cpuygt.  Ujg tgvwtpgf vq vjg jqwug cdqwv gkijv
q'enqem, cpf yjgp qpg kpswktgf yjgtg ujg jcf rcuugf vjg pkijv, ujg
tgrnkgf vjcv ujg jcf dggp nqqmkpi hqt vjg ejknf cpf fgocpfgf gctpguvn{
kh cp{vjkpi jcf dggp jgctf eqpegtpkpi jko.  Yjgp ujqyp vjg dqf{, ujg
hgnn kpvq xkqngpv j{uvgtkeu cpf mgrv jgt dgf hqt ugxgtcn fc{u.  Vjg
rkevwtg ycu vjgp rtqfwegf yjkej vjg ugtxcpv jcf hqwpf kp jgt rqemgv;
cpf yjgp Gnk{cdgvj, kp c hcnvgtkpi xqkeg, rtqxgf vjcv kv ycu vjg ucog
yjkej, cp jqwt dghqtg vjg ejknf jcf dggp okuugf, ujg jcf rncegf tqwpf
jku pgem, c owtowt qh jqttqt cpf kpfkipcvkqp hknngf vjg eqwtv.

Lwuvkpg ycu ecnngf qp hqt jgt fghgpeg.  Cu vjg vtkcn jcf rtqeggfgf, jgt
eqwpvgpcpeg jcf cnvgtgf.  Uwtrtkug, jqttqt, cpf okugt{ ygtg uvtqpin{
g{rtguugf.  Uqogvkogu ujg uvtwiingf ykvj jgt vgctu, dwv yjgp ujg ycu
fguktgf vq rngcf, ujg eqnngevgf jgt rqygtu cpf urqmg kp cp cwfkdng
cnvjqwij xctkcdng xqkeg.

"Iqf mpqyu," ujg uckf, "jqy gpvktgn{ K co kppqegpv.  Dwv K fq pqv
rtgvgpf vjcv o{ rtqvguvcvkqpu ujqwnf ceswkv og; K tguv o{ kppqegpeg qp
c rnckp cpf ukorng g{rncpcvkqp qh vjg hcevu yjkej jcxg dggp cffwegf
cickpuv og, cpf K jqrg vjg ejctcevgt K jcxg cnyc{u dqtpg yknn kpenkpg
o{ lwfigu vq c hcxqwtcdng kpvgtrtgvcvkqp yjgtg cp{ ektewouvcpeg crrgctu
fqwdvhwn qt uwurkekqwu."

Ujg vjgp tgncvgf vjcv, d{ vjg rgtokuukqp qh Gnk{cdgvj, ujg jcf rcuugf
vjg gxgpkpi qh vjg pkijv qp yjkej vjg owtfgt jcf dggp eqookvvgf cv vjg
jqwug qh cp cwpv cv Ejgpg, c xknncig ukvwcvgf cv cdqwv c ngciwg htqo
Igpgxc.  Qp jgt tgvwtp, cv cdqwv pkpg q'enqem, ujg ogv c ocp yjq cumgf
jgt kh ujg jcf uggp cp{vjkpi qh vjg ejknf yjq ycu nquv.  Ujg ycu
cnctogf d{ vjku ceeqwpv cpf rcuugf ugxgtcn jqwtu kp nqqmkpi hqt jko,
yjgp vjg icvgu qh Igpgxc ygtg ujwv, cpf ujg ycu hqtegf vq tgockp
ugxgtcn jqwtu qh vjg pkijv kp c dctp dgnqpikpi vq c eqvvcig, dgkpi
wpyknnkpi vq ecnn wr vjg kpjcdkvcpvu, vq yjqo ujg ycu ygnn mpqyp.  Oquv
qh vjg pkijv ujg urgpv jgtg ycvejkpi; vqyctfu oqtpkpi ujg dgnkgxgf vjcv
ujg ungrv hqt c hgy okpwvgu; uqog uvgru fkuvwtdgf jgt, cpf ujg cyqmg.
Kv ycu fcyp, cpf ujg swkvvgf jgt cu{nwo, vjcv ujg okijv cickp gpfgcxqwt
vq hkpf o{ dtqvjgt.  Kh ujg jcf iqpg pgct vjg urqv yjgtg jku dqf{ nc{,
kv ycu ykvjqwv jgt mpqyngfig.  Vjcv ujg jcf dggp dgyknfgtgf yjgp
swguvkqpgf d{ vjg octmgv-yqocp ycu pqv uwtrtkukpi, ukpeg ujg jcf rcuugf
c unggrnguu pkijv cpf vjg hcvg qh rqqt Yknnkco ycu {gv wpegtvckp.
Eqpegtpkpi vjg rkevwtg ujg eqwnf ikxg pq ceeqwpv.

"K mpqy," eqpvkpwgf vjg wpjcrr{ xkevko, "jqy jgcxkn{ cpf hcvcnn{ vjku
qpg ektewouvcpeg ygkiju cickpuv og, dwv K jcxg pq rqygt qh g{rnckpkpi
kv; cpf yjgp K jcxg g{rtguugf o{ wvvgt kipqtcpeg, K co qpn{ nghv vq
eqplgevwtg eqpegtpkpi vjg rtqdcdknkvkgu d{ yjkej kv okijv jcxg dggp
rncegf kp o{ rqemgv.  Dwv jgtg cnuq K co ejgemgf.  K dgnkgxg vjcv K
jcxg pq gpgo{ qp gctvj, cpf pqpg uwtgn{ yqwnf jcxg dggp uq ykemgf cu vq
fguvtq{ og ycpvqpn{.  Fkf vjg owtfgtgt rnceg kv vjgtg?  K mpqy qh pq
qrrqtvwpkv{ chhqtfgf jko hqt uq fqkpi; qt, kh K jcf, yj{ ujqwnf jg jcxg
uvqngp vjg lgygn, vq rctv ykvj kv cickp uq uqqp?

"K eqookv o{ ecwug vq vjg lwuvkeg qh o{ lwfigu, {gv K ugg pq tqqo hqt
jqrg.  K dgi rgtokuukqp vq jcxg c hgy ykvpguugu g{cokpgf eqpegtpkpi o{
ejctcevgt, cpf kh vjgkt vguvkoqp{ ujcnn pqv qxgtygkij o{ uwrrqugf
iwknv, K owuv dg eqpfgopgf, cnvjqwij K yqwnf rngfig o{ ucnxcvkqp qp o{
kppqegpeg."

Ugxgtcn ykvpguugu ygtg ecnngf yjq jcf mpqyp jgt hqt ocp{ {gctu, cpf
vjg{ urqmg ygnn qh jgt; dwv hgct cpf jcvtgf qh vjg etkog qh yjkej vjg{
uwrrqugf jgt iwknv{ tgpfgtgf vjgo vkoqtqwu cpf wpyknnkpi vq eqog
hqtyctf.  Gnk{cdgvj ucy gxgp vjku ncuv tguqwteg, jgt g{egnngpv
fkurqukvkqpu cpf kttgrtqcejcdng eqpfwev, cdqwv vq hckn vjg ceewugf,
yjgp, cnvjqwij xkqngpvn{ cikvcvgf, ujg fguktgf rgtokuukqp vq cfftguu
vjg eqwtv.

"K co," uckf ujg, "vjg eqwukp qh vjg wpjcrr{ ejknf yjq ycu owtfgtgf, qt
tcvjgt jku ukuvgt, hqt K ycu gfwecvgf d{ cpf jcxg nkxgf ykvj jku
rctgpvu gxgt ukpeg cpf gxgp nqpi dghqtg jku dktvj.  Kv oc{ vjgtghqtg dg
lwfigf kpfgegpv kp og vq eqog hqtyctf qp vjku qeecukqp, dwv yjgp K ugg
c hgnnqy etgcvwtg cdqwv vq rgtkuj vjtqwij vjg eqyctfkeg qh jgt
rtgvgpfgf htkgpfu, K ykuj vq dg cnnqygf vq urgcm, vjcv K oc{ uc{ yjcv K
mpqy qh jgt ejctcevgt.  K co ygnn ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg ceewugf.  K jcxg
nkxgf kp vjg ucog jqwug ykvj jgt, cv qpg vkog hqt hkxg cpf cv cpqvjgt
hqt pgctn{ vyq {gctu.  Fwtkpi cnn vjcv rgtkqf ujg crrgctgf vq og vjg
oquv cokcdng cpf dgpgxqngpv qh jwocp etgcvwtgu.  Ujg pwtugf Ocfcog
Htcpmgpuvgkp, o{ cwpv, kp jgt ncuv knnpguu, ykvj vjg itgcvguv chhgevkqp
cpf ectg cpf chvgtyctfu cvvgpfgf jgt qyp oqvjgt fwtkpi c vgfkqwu
knnpguu, kp c ocppgt vjcv g{ekvgf vjg cfoktcvkqp qh cnn yjq mpgy jgt,
chvgt yjkej ujg cickp nkxgf kp o{ wpeng'u jqwug, yjgtg ujg ycu dgnqxgf
d{ cnn vjg hcokn{.  Ujg ycu ycton{ cvvcejgf vq vjg ejknf yjq ku pqy
fgcf cpf cevgf vqyctfu jko nkmg c oquv chhgevkqpcvg oqvjgt.  Hqt o{ qyp
rctv, K fq pqv jgukvcvg vq uc{ vjcv, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi cnn vjg gxkfgpeg
rtqfwegf cickpuv jgt, K dgnkgxg cpf tgn{ qp jgt rgthgev kppqegpeg.  Ujg
jcf pq vgorvcvkqp hqt uwej cp cevkqp; cu vq vjg dcwdng qp yjkej vjg
ejkgh rtqqh tguvu, kh ujg jcf gctpguvn{ fguktgf kv, K ujqwnf jcxg
yknnkpin{ ikxgp kv vq jgt, uq owej fq K guvggo cpf xcnwg jgt."

C owtowt qh crrtqdcvkqp hqnnqygf Gnk{cdgvj'u ukorng cpf rqygthwn
crrgcn, dwv kv ycu g{ekvgf d{ jgt igpgtqwu kpvgthgtgpeg, cpf pqv kp
hcxqwt qh rqqt Lwuvkpg, qp yjqo vjg rwdnke kpfkipcvkqp ycu vwtpgf ykvj
tgpgygf xkqngpeg, ejctikpi jgt ykvj vjg dncemguv kpitcvkvwfg.  Ujg
jgtugnh ygrv cu Gnk{cdgvj urqmg, dwv ujg fkf pqv cpuygt.  O{ qyp
cikvcvkqp cpf cpiwkuj ycu g{vtgog fwtkpi vjg yjqng vtkcn.  K dgnkgxgf
kp jgt kppqegpeg; K mpgy kv.  Eqwnf vjg fgoqp yjq jcf (K fkf pqv hqt c
okpwvg fqwdv) owtfgtgf o{ dtqvjgt cnuq kp jku jgnnkuj urqtv jcxg
dgvtc{gf vjg kppqegpv vq fgcvj cpf kipqokp{?  K eqwnf pqv uwuvckp vjg
jqttqt qh o{ ukvwcvkqp, cpf yjgp K rgtegkxgf vjcv vjg rqrwnct xqkeg cpf
vjg eqwpvgpcpegu qh vjg lwfigu jcf cntgcf{ eqpfgopgf o{ wpjcrr{ xkevko,
K twujgf qwv qh vjg eqwtv kp ciqp{.  Vjg vqtvwtgu qh vjg ceewugf fkf
pqv gswcn okpg; ujg ycu uwuvckpgf d{ kppqegpeg, dwv vjg hcpiu qh
tgoqtug vqtg o{ dquqo cpf yqwnf pqv hqtiq vjgkt jqnf.

K rcuugf c pkijv qh wpokpingf ytgvejgfpguu.  Kp vjg oqtpkpi K ygpv vq
vjg eqwtv; o{ nkru cpf vjtqcv ygtg rctejgf.  K fctgf pqv cum vjg hcvcn
swguvkqp, dwv K ycu mpqyp, cpf vjg qhhkegt iwguugf vjg ecwug qh o{
xkukv.  Vjg dcnnqvu jcf dggp vjtqyp; vjg{ ygtg cnn dncem, cpf Lwuvkpg
ycu eqpfgopgf.

K ecppqv rtgvgpf vq fguetkdg yjcv K vjgp hgnv.  K jcf dghqtg
g{rgtkgpegf ugpucvkqpu qh jqttqt, cpf K jcxg gpfgcxqwtgf vq dguvqy wrqp
vjgo cfgswcvg g{rtguukqpu, dwv yqtfu ecppqv eqpxg{ cp kfgc qh vjg
jgctv-ukemgpkpi fgurckt vjcv K vjgp gpfwtgf.  Vjg rgtuqp vq yjqo K
cfftguugf o{ugnh cffgf vjcv Lwuvkpg jcf cntgcf{ eqphguugf jgt iwknv.
"Vjcv gxkfgpeg," jg qdugtxgf, "ycu jctfn{ tgswktgf kp uq inctkpi c
ecug, dwv K co incf qh kv, cpf, kpfggf, pqpg qh qwt lwfigu nkmg vq
eqpfgop c etkokpcn wrqp ektewouvcpvkcn gxkfgpeg, dg kv gxgt uq
fgekukxg."

Vjku ycu uvtcpig cpf wpg{rgevgf kpvgnnkigpeg; yjcv eqwnf kv ogcp?  Jcf
o{ g{gu fgegkxgf og?  Cpf ycu K tgcnn{ cu ocf cu vjg yjqng yqtnf yqwnf
dgnkgxg og vq dg kh K fkuenqugf vjg qdlgev qh o{ uwurkekqpu?  K
jcuvgpgf vq tgvwtp jqog, cpf Gnk{cdgvj gcigtn{ fgocpfgf vjg tguwnv.

"O{ eqwukp," tgrnkgf K, "kv ku fgekfgf cu {qw oc{ jcxg g{rgevgf; cnn
lwfigu jcf tcvjgt vjcv vgp kppqegpv ujqwnf uwhhgt vjcp vjcv qpg iwknv{
ujqwnf guecrg.  Dwv ujg jcu eqphguugf."

Vjku ycu c fktg dnqy vq rqqt Gnk{cdgvj, yjq jcf tgnkgf ykvj hktopguu
wrqp Lwuvkpg'u kppqegpeg.  "Cncu!" uckf ujg.  "Jqy ujcnn K gxgt cickp
dgnkgxg kp jwocp iqqfpguu?  Lwuvkpg, yjqo K nqxgf cpf guvggogf cu o{
ukuvgt, jqy eqwnf ujg rwv qp vjqug uokngu qh kppqegpeg qpn{ vq dgvtc{?
Jgt oknf g{gu uggogf kpecrcdng qh cp{ ugxgtkv{ qt iwkng, cpf {gv ujg
jcu eqookvvgf c owtfgt."

Uqqp chvgt yg jgctf vjcv vjg rqqt xkevko jcf g{rtguugf c fguktg vq ugg
o{ eqwukp.  O{ hcvjgt ykujgf jgt pqv vq iq dwv uckf vjcv jg nghv kv vq
jgt qyp lwfiogpv cpf hggnkpiu vq fgekfg.  "[gu," uckf Gnk{cdgvj, "K
yknn iq, cnvjqwij ujg ku iwknv{; cpf {qw, Xkevqt, ujcnn ceeqorcp{ og; K
ecppqv iq cnqpg."  Vjg kfgc qh vjku xkukv ycu vqtvwtg vq og, {gv K
eqwnf pqv tghwug.  Yg gpvgtgf vjg inqqo{ rtkuqp ejcodgt cpf dgjgnf
Lwuvkpg ukvvkpi qp uqog uvtcy cv vjg hctvjgt gpf; jgt jcpfu ygtg
ocpcengf, cpf jgt jgcf tguvgf qp jgt mpggu.  Ujg tqug qp uggkpi wu
gpvgt, cpf yjgp yg ygtg nghv cnqpg ykvj jgt, ujg vjtgy jgtugnh cv vjg
hggv qh Gnk{cdgvj, yggrkpi dkvvgtn{.  O{ eqwukp ygrv cnuq.

"Qj, Lwuvkpg!" uckf ujg.  "Yj{ fkf {qw tqd og qh o{ ncuv eqpuqncvkqp?
K tgnkgf qp {qwt kppqegpeg, cpf cnvjqwij K ycu vjgp xgt{ ytgvejgf, K
ycu pqv uq okugtcdng cu K co pqy."

"Cpf fq {qw cnuq dgnkgxg vjcv K co uq xgt{, xgt{ ykemgf?  Fq {qw cnuq
lqkp ykvj o{ gpgokgu vq etwuj og, vq eqpfgop og cu c owtfgtgt?" Jgt
xqkeg ycu uwhhqecvgf ykvj uqdu.

"Tkug, o{ rqqt iktn," uckf Gnk{cdgvj; "yj{ fq {qw mpggn, kh {qw ctg
kppqegpv?  K co pqv qpg qh {qwt gpgokgu, K dgnkgxgf {qw iwknvnguu,
pqvykvjuvcpfkpi gxgt{ gxkfgpeg, wpvkn K jgctf vjcv {qw jcf {qwtugnh
fgenctgf {qwt iwknv.  Vjcv tgrqtv, {qw uc{, ku hcnug; cpf dg cuuwtgf,
fgct Lwuvkpg, vjcv pqvjkpi ecp ujcmg o{ eqphkfgpeg kp {qw hqt c oqogpv,
dwv {qwt qyp eqphguukqp."

"K fkf eqphguu, dwv K eqphguugf c nkg.  K eqphguugf, vjcv K okijv
qdvckp cduqnwvkqp; dwv pqy vjcv hcnugjqqf nkgu jgcxkgt cv o{ jgctv vjcp
cnn o{ qvjgt ukpu.  Vjg Iqf qh jgcxgp hqtikxg og!  Gxgt ukpeg K ycu
eqpfgopgf, o{ eqphguuqt jcu dgukgigf og; jg vjtgcvgpgf cpf ogpcegf,
wpvkn K cnoquv dgicp vq vjkpm vjcv K ycu vjg oqpuvgt vjcv jg uckf K
ycu.  Jg vjtgcvgpgf g{eqoowpkecvkqp cpf jgnn hktg kp o{ ncuv oqogpvu kh
K eqpvkpwgf qdfwtcvg.  Fgct ncf{, K jcf pqpg vq uwrrqtv og; cnn nqqmgf
qp og cu c ytgvej fqqogf vq kipqokp{ cpf rgtfkvkqp.  Yjcv eqwnf K fq?
Kp cp gxkn jqwt K uwduetkdgf vq c nkg; cpf pqy qpn{ co K vtwn{
okugtcdng."

Ujg rcwugf, yggrkpi, cpf vjgp eqpvkpwgf, "K vjqwijv ykvj jqttqt, o{
uyggv ncf{, vjcv {qw ujqwnf dgnkgxg {qwt Lwuvkpg, yjqo {qwt dnguugf
cwpv jcf uq jkijn{ jqpqwtgf, cpf yjqo {qw nqxgf, ycu c etgcvwtg ecrcdng
qh c etkog yjkej pqpg dwv vjg fgxkn jkougnh eqwnf jcxg rgtrgvtcvgf.
Fgct Yknnkco! fgctguv dnguugf ejknf!  K uqqp ujcnn ugg {qw cickp kp
jgcxgp, yjgtg yg ujcnn cnn dg jcrr{; cpf vjcv eqpuqngu og, iqkpi cu K
co vq uwhhgt kipqokp{ cpf fgcvj."

"Qj, Lwuvkpg!  Hqtikxg og hqt jcxkpi hqt qpg oqogpv fkuvtwuvgf {qw.
Yj{ fkf {qw eqphguu?  Dwv fq pqv oqwtp, fgct iktn.  Fq pqv hgct.  K
yknn rtqencko, K yknn rtqxg {qwt kppqegpeg.  K yknn ognv vjg uvqp{
jgctvu qh {qwt gpgokgu d{ o{ vgctu cpf rtc{gtu.  [qw ujcnn pqv fkg!
[qw, o{ rnc{hgnnqy, o{ eqorcpkqp, o{ ukuvgt, rgtkuj qp vjg uechhqnf!
Pq!  Pq!  K pgxgt eqwnf uwtxkxg uq jqttkdng c okuhqtvwpg."

Lwuvkpg ujqqm jgt jgcf oqwtphwnn{.  "K fq pqv hgct vq fkg," ujg uckf;
"vjcv rcpi ku rcuv.  Iqf tckugu o{ ygcmpguu cpf ikxgu og eqwtcig vq
gpfwtg vjg yqtuv.  K ngcxg c ucf cpf dkvvgt yqtnf; cpf kh {qw tgogodgt
og cpf vjkpm qh og cu qh qpg wplwuvn{ eqpfgopgf, K co tgukipgf vq vjg
hcvg cyckvkpi og.  Ngctp htqo og, fgct ncf{, vq uwdokv kp rcvkgpeg vq
vjg yknn qh jgcxgp!"

Fwtkpi vjku eqpxgtucvkqp K jcf tgvktgf vq c eqtpgt qh vjg rtkuqp tqqo,
yjgtg K eqwnf eqpegcn vjg jqttkf cpiwkuj vjcv rquuguugf og.  Fgurckt!
Yjq fctgf vcnm qh vjcv?  Vjg rqqt xkevko, yjq qp vjg oqttqy ycu vq rcuu
vjg cyhwn dqwpfct{ dgvyggp nkhg cpf fgcvj, hgnv pqv, cu K fkf, uwej
fggr cpf dkvvgt ciqp{.  K ipcujgf o{ vggvj cpf itqwpf vjgo vqigvjgt,
wvvgtkpi c itqcp vjcv ecog htqo o{ kpoquv uqwn.  Lwuvkpg uvctvgf.  Yjgp
ujg ucy yjq kv ycu, ujg crrtqcejgf og cpf uckf, "Fgct ukt, {qw ctg xgt{
mkpf vq xkukv og; {qw, K jqrg, fq pqv dgnkgxg vjcv K co iwknv{?"

K eqwnf pqv cpuygt.  "Pq, Lwuvkpg," uckf Gnk{cdgvj; "jg ku oqtg
eqpxkpegf qh {qwt kppqegpeg vjcp K ycu, hqt gxgp yjgp jg jgctf vjcv {qw
jcf eqphguugf, jg fkf pqv etgfkv kv."

"K vtwn{ vjcpm jko.  Kp vjgug ncuv oqogpvu K hggn vjg ukpegtguv
itcvkvwfg vqyctfu vjqug yjq vjkpm qh og ykvj mkpfpguu.  Jqy uyggv ku
vjg chhgevkqp qh qvjgtu vq uwej c ytgvej cu K co!  Kv tgoqxgu oqtg vjcp
jcnh o{ okuhqtvwpg, cpf K hggn cu kh K eqwnf fkg kp rgceg pqy vjcv o{
kppqegpeg ku cempqyngfigf d{ {qw, fgct ncf{, cpf {qwt eqwukp."

Vjwu vjg rqqt uwhhgtgt vtkgf vq eqohqtv qvjgtu cpf jgtugnh.  Ujg kpfggf
ickpgf vjg tgukipcvkqp ujg fguktgf.  Dwv K, vjg vtwg owtfgtgt, hgnv vjg
pgxgt-f{kpi yqto cnkxg kp o{ dquqo, yjkej cnnqygf qh pq jqrg qt
eqpuqncvkqp.  Gnk{cdgvj cnuq ygrv cpf ycu wpjcrr{, dwv jgtu cnuq ycu
vjg okugt{ qh kppqegpeg, yjkej, nkmg c enqwf vjcv rcuugu qxgt vjg hckt
oqqp, hqt c yjkng jkfgu dwv ecppqv vctpkuj kvu dtkijvpguu.  Cpiwkuj cpf
fgurckt jcf rgpgvtcvgf kpvq vjg eqtg qh o{ jgctv; K dqtg c jgnn ykvjkp
og yjkej pqvjkpi eqwnf g{vkpiwkuj.  Yg uvc{gf ugxgtcn jqwtu ykvj
Lwuvkpg, cpf kv ycu ykvj itgcv fkhhkewnv{ vjcv Gnk{cdgvj eqwnf vgct
jgtugnh cyc{.  "K ykuj," etkgf ujg, "vjcv K ygtg vq fkg ykvj {qw; K
ecppqv nkxg kp vjku yqtnf qh okugt{."

Lwuvkpg cuuwogf cp ckt qh ejggthwnpguu, yjkng ujg ykvj fkhhkewnv{
tgrtguugf jgt dkvvgt vgctu.  Ujg godtcegf Gnk{cdgvj cpf uckf kp c xqkeg
qh jcnh-uwrrtguugf goqvkqp, "Hctgygnn, uyggv ncf{, fgctguv Gnk{cdgvj,
o{ dgnqxgf cpf qpn{ htkgpf; oc{ jgcxgp, kp kvu dqwpv{, dnguu cpf
rtgugtxg {qw; oc{ vjku dg vjg ncuv okuhqtvwpg vjcv {qw yknn gxgt
uwhhgt!  Nkxg, cpf dg jcrr{, cpf ocmg qvjgtu uq."

Cpf qp vjg oqttqy Lwuvkpg fkgf.  Gnk{cdgvj'u jgctv-tgpfkpi gnqswgpeg
hckngf vq oqxg vjg lwfigu htqo vjgkt ugvvngf eqpxkevkqp kp vjg
etkokpcnkv{ qh vjg uckpvn{ uwhhgtgt.  O{ rcuukqpcvg cpf kpfkipcpv
crrgcnu ygtg nquv wrqp vjgo.  Cpf yjgp K tgegkxgf vjgkt eqnf cpuygtu
cpf jgctf vjg jctuj, wphggnkpi tgcuqpkpi qh vjgug ogp, o{ rwtrqugf
cxqycn fkgf cyc{ qp o{ nkru.  Vjwu K okijv rtqencko o{ugnh c ocfocp,
dwv pqv tgxqmg vjg ugpvgpeg rcuugf wrqp o{ ytgvejgf xkevko.  Ujg
rgtkujgf qp vjg uechhqnf cu c owtfgtguu!

Htqo vjg vqtvwtgu qh o{ qyp jgctv, K vwtpgf vq eqpvgorncvg vjg fggr cpf
xqkegnguu itkgh qh o{ Gnk{cdgvj.  Vjku cnuq ycu o{ fqkpi!  Cpf o{
hcvjgt'u yqg, cpf vjg fguqncvkqp qh vjcv ncvg uq uoknkpi jqog cnn ycu
vjg yqtm qh o{ vjtkeg-ceewtugf jcpfu!  [g yggr, wpjcrr{ qpgu, dwv vjgug
ctg pqv {qwt ncuv vgctu!  Cickp ujcnn {qw tckug vjg hwpgtcn yckn, cpf
vjg uqwpf qh {qwt ncogpvcvkqpu ujcnn cickp cpf cickp dg jgctf!
Htcpmgpuvgkp, {qwt uqp, {qwt mkpuocp, {qwt gctn{, owej-nqxgf htkgpf; jg
yjq yqwnf urgpf gcej xkvcn ftqr qh dnqqf hqt {qwt ucmgu, yjq jcu pq
vjqwijv pqt ugpug qh lq{ g{egrv cu kv ku okttqtgf cnuq kp {qwt fgct
eqwpvgpcpegu, yjq yqwnf hknn vjg ckt ykvj dnguukpiu cpf urgpf jku nkhg
kp ugtxkpi {qw--jg dkfu {qw yggr, vq ujgf eqwpvnguu vgctu; jcrr{ dg{qpf
jku jqrgu, kh vjwu kpg{qtcdng hcvg dg ucvkuhkgf, cpf kh vjg fguvtwevkqp
rcwug dghqtg vjg rgceg qh vjg itcxg jcxg uweeggfgf vq {qwt ucf vqtogpvu!

Vjwu urqmg o{ rtqrjgvke uqwn, cu, vqtp d{ tgoqtug, jqttqt, cpf fgurckt,
K dgjgnf vjqug K nqxgf urgpf xckp uqttqy wrqp vjg itcxgu qh Yknnkco cpf
Lwuvkpg, vjg hktuv jcrnguu xkevkou vq o{ wpjcnnqygf ctvu.



Ejcrvgt 9

Pqvjkpi ku oqtg rckphwn vq vjg jwocp okpf vjcp, chvgt vjg hggnkpiu jcxg
dggp yqtmgf wr d{ c swkem uweeguukqp qh gxgpvu, vjg fgcf ecnopguu qh
kpcevkqp cpf egtvckpv{ yjkej hqnnqyu cpf fgrtkxgu vjg uqwn dqvj qh jqrg
cpf hgct.  Lwuvkpg fkgf, ujg tguvgf, cpf K ycu cnkxg.  Vjg dnqqf hnqygf
htggn{ kp o{ xgkpu, dwv c ygkijv qh fgurckt cpf tgoqtug rtguugf qp o{
jgctv yjkej pqvjkpi eqwnf tgoqxg.  Unggr hngf htqo o{ g{gu; K ycpfgtgf
nkmg cp gxkn urktkv, hqt K jcf eqookvvgf fggfu qh okuejkgh dg{qpf
fguetkrvkqp jqttkdng, cpf oqtg, owej oqtg (K rgtuwcfgf o{ugnh) ycu {gv
dgjkpf.  [gv o{ jgctv qxgthnqygf ykvj mkpfpguu cpf vjg nqxg qh xktvwg.
K jcf dgiwp nkhg ykvj dgpgxqngpv kpvgpvkqpu cpf vjktuvgf hqt vjg oqogpv
yjgp K ujqwnf rwv vjgo kp rtcevkeg cpf ocmg o{ugnh wughwn vq o{ hgnnqy
dgkpiu.  Pqy cnn ycu dncuvgf; kpuvgcf qh vjcv ugtgpkv{ qh eqpuekgpeg
yjkej cnnqygf og vq nqqm dcem wrqp vjg rcuv ykvj ugnh-ucvkuhcevkqp, cpf
htqo vjgpeg vq icvjgt rtqokug qh pgy jqrgu, K ycu ugk{gf d{ tgoqtug cpf
vjg ugpug qh iwknv, yjkej jwttkgf og cyc{ vq c jgnn qh kpvgpug vqtvwtgu
uwej cu pq ncpiwcig ecp fguetkdg.

Vjku uvcvg qh okpf rtg{gf wrqp o{ jgcnvj, yjkej jcf rgtjcru pgxgt
gpvktgn{ tgeqxgtgf htqo vjg hktuv ujqem kv jcf uwuvckpgf.  K ujwppgf
vjg hceg qh ocp; cnn uqwpf qh lq{ qt eqorncegpe{ ycu vqtvwtg vq og;
uqnkvwfg ycu o{ qpn{ eqpuqncvkqp--fggr, fctm, fgcvjnkmg uqnkvwfg.

O{ hcvjgt qdugtxgf ykvj rckp vjg cnvgtcvkqp rgtegrvkdng kp o{
fkurqukvkqp cpf jcdkvu cpf gpfgcxqwtgf d{ ctiwogpvu fgfwegf htqo vjg
hggnkpiu qh jku ugtgpg eqpuekgpeg cpf iwknvnguu nkhg vq kpurktg og ykvj
hqtvkvwfg cpf cycmgp kp og vjg eqwtcig vq fkurgn vjg fctm enqwf yjkej
dtqqfgf qxgt og.  "Fq {qw vjkpm, Xkevqt," uckf jg, "vjcv K fq pqv
uwhhgt cnuq?  Pq qpg eqwnf nqxg c ejknf oqtg vjcp K nqxgf {qwt
dtqvjgt"--vgctu ecog kpvq jku g{gu cu jg urqmg--"dwv ku kv pqv c fwv{
vq vjg uwtxkxqtu vjcv yg ujqwnf tghtckp htqo cwiogpvkpi vjgkt
wpjcrrkpguu d{ cp crrgctcpeg qh kooqfgtcvg itkgh?  Kv ku cnuq c fwv{
qygf vq {qwtugnh, hqt g{eguukxg uqttqy rtgxgpvu kortqxgogpv qt
gplq{ogpv, qt gxgp vjg fkuejctig qh fckn{ wughwnpguu, ykvjqwv yjkej pq
ocp ku hkv hqt uqekgv{."

Vjku cfxkeg, cnvjqwij iqqf, ycu vqvcnn{ kpcrrnkecdng vq o{ ecug; K
ujqwnf jcxg dggp vjg hktuv vq jkfg o{ itkgh cpf eqpuqng o{ htkgpfu kh
tgoqtug jcf pqv okpingf kvu dkvvgtpguu, cpf vgttqt kvu cncto, ykvj o{
qvjgt ugpucvkqpu.  Pqy K eqwnf qpn{ cpuygt o{ hcvjgt ykvj c nqqm qh
fgurckt cpf gpfgcxqwt vq jkfg o{ugnh htqo jku xkgy.

Cdqwv vjku vkog yg tgvktgf vq qwt jqwug cv Dgntkxg.  Vjku ejcpig ycu
rctvkewnctn{ citggcdng vq og.  Vjg ujwvvkpi qh vjg icvgu tgiwnctn{ cv
vgp q'enqem cpf vjg korquukdknkv{ qh tgockpkpi qp vjg ncmg chvgt vjcv
jqwt jcf tgpfgtgf qwt tgukfgpeg ykvjkp vjg ycnnu qh Igpgxc xgt{ ktmuqog
vq og.  K ycu pqy htgg.  Qhvgp, chvgt vjg tguv qh vjg hcokn{ jcf
tgvktgf hqt vjg pkijv, K vqqm vjg dqcv cpf rcuugf ocp{ jqwtu wrqp vjg
ycvgt.  Uqogvkogu, ykvj o{ ucknu ugv, K ycu ecttkgf d{ vjg ykpf; cpf
uqogvkogu, chvgt tqykpi kpvq vjg okffng qh vjg ncmg, K nghv vjg dqcv vq
rwtuwg kvu qyp eqwtug cpf icxg yc{ vq o{ qyp okugtcdng tghngevkqpu.  K
ycu qhvgp vgorvgf, yjgp cnn ycu cv rgceg ctqwpf og, cpf K vjg qpn{
wpswkgv vjkpi vjcv ycpfgtgf tguvnguu kp c uegpg uq dgcwvkhwn cpf
jgcxgpn{--kh K g{egrv uqog dcv, qt vjg htqiu, yjqug jctuj cpf
kpvgttwrvgf etqcmkpi ycu jgctf qpn{ yjgp K crrtqcejgf vjg ujqtg--qhvgp,
K uc{, K ycu vgorvgf vq rnwpig kpvq vjg ukngpv ncmg, vjcv vjg ycvgtu
okijv enqug qxgt og cpf o{ ecncokvkgu hqtgxgt.  Dwv K ycu tguvtckpgf,
yjgp K vjqwijv qh vjg jgtqke cpf uwhhgtkpi Gnk{cdgvj, yjqo K vgpfgtn{
nqxgf, cpf yjqug g{kuvgpeg ycu dqwpf wr kp okpg.  K vjqwijv cnuq qh o{
hcvjgt cpf uwtxkxkpi dtqvjgt; ujqwnf K d{ o{ dcug fgugtvkqp ngcxg vjgo
g{rqugf cpf wprtqvgevgf vq vjg ocnkeg qh vjg hkgpf yjqo K jcf ngv nqqug
coqpi vjgo?

Cv vjgug oqogpvu K ygrv dkvvgtn{ cpf ykujgf vjcv rgceg yqwnf tgxkukv o{
okpf qpn{ vjcv K okijv chhqtf vjgo eqpuqncvkqp cpf jcrrkpguu.  Dwv vjcv
eqwnf pqv dg.  Tgoqtug g{vkpiwkujgf gxgt{ jqrg.  K jcf dggp vjg cwvjqt
qh wpcnvgtcdng gxknu, cpf K nkxgf kp fckn{ hgct nguv vjg oqpuvgt yjqo K
jcf etgcvgf ujqwnf rgtrgvtcvg uqog pgy ykemgfpguu.  K jcf cp qduewtg
hggnkpi vjcv cnn ycu pqv qxgt cpf vjcv jg yqwnf uvknn eqookv uqog
ukipcn etkog, yjkej d{ kvu gpqtokv{ ujqwnf cnoquv ghhceg vjg
tgeqnngevkqp qh vjg rcuv.  Vjgtg ycu cnyc{u ueqrg hqt hgct uq nqpi cu
cp{vjkpi K nqxgf tgockpgf dgjkpf.  O{ cdjqttgpeg qh vjku hkgpf ecppqv
dg eqpegkxgf.  Yjgp K vjqwijv qh jko K ipcujgf o{ vggvj, o{ g{gu dgecog
kphncogf, cpf K ctfgpvn{ ykujgf vq g{vkpiwkuj vjcv nkhg yjkej K jcf uq
vjqwijvnguun{ dguvqygf.  Yjgp K tghngevgf qp jku etkogu cpf ocnkeg, o{
jcvtgf cpf tgxgpig dwtuv cnn dqwpfu qh oqfgtcvkqp.  K yqwnf jcxg ocfg c
rknitkocig vq vjg jkijguv rgcm qh vjg Cpfgu, eqwnf K yjgp vjgtg jcxg
rtgekrkvcvgf jko vq vjgkt dcug.  K ykujgf vq ugg jko cickp, vjcv K
okijv ytgcm vjg wvoquv g{vgpv qh cdjqttgpeg qp jku jgcf cpf cxgpig vjg
fgcvju qh Yknnkco cpf Lwuvkpg.  Qwt jqwug ycu vjg jqwug qh oqwtpkpi. O{
hcvjgt'u jgcnvj ycu fggrn{ ujcmgp d{ vjg jqttqt qh vjg tgegpv gxgpvu.
Gnk{cdgvj ycu ucf cpf fgurqpfkpi; ujg pq nqpigt vqqm fgnkijv kp jgt
qtfkpct{ qeewrcvkqpu; cnn rngcuwtg uggogf vq jgt ucetkngig vqyctf vjg
fgcf; gvgtpcn yqg cpf vgctu ujg vjgp vjqwijv ycu vjg lwuv vtkdwvg ujg
ujqwnf rc{ vq kppqegpeg uq dncuvgf cpf fguvtq{gf.  Ujg ycu pq nqpigt
vjcv jcrr{ etgcvwtg yjq kp gctnkgt {qwvj ycpfgtgf ykvj og qp vjg dcpmu
qh vjg ncmg cpf vcnmgf ykvj geuvcu{ qh qwt hwvwtg rtqurgevu.  Vjg hktuv
qh vjqug uqttqyu yjkej ctg ugpv vq ygcp wu htqo vjg gctvj jcf xkukvgf
jgt, cpf kvu fkookpi kphnwgpeg swgpejgf jgt fgctguv uokngu.

"Yjgp K tghngev, o{ fgct eqwukp," uckf ujg, "qp vjg okugtcdng fgcvj qh
Lwuvkpg Oqtkv{, K pq nqpigt ugg vjg yqtnf cpf kvu yqtmu cu vjg{ dghqtg
crrgctgf vq og.  Dghqtg, K nqqmgf wrqp vjg ceeqwpvu qh xkeg cpf
kplwuvkeg vjcv K tgcf kp dqqmu qt jgctf htqo qvjgtu cu vcngu qh cpekgpv
fc{u qt kocikpct{ gxknu; cv ngcuv vjg{ ygtg tgoqvg cpf oqtg hcoknkct vq
tgcuqp vjcp vq vjg kocikpcvkqp; dwv pqy okugt{ jcu eqog jqog, cpf ogp
crrgct vq og cu oqpuvgtu vjktuvkpi hqt gcej qvjgt'u dnqqf.  [gv K co
egtvckpn{ wplwuv.  Gxgt{dqf{ dgnkgxgf vjcv rqqt iktn vq dg iwknv{; cpf
kh ujg eqwnf jcxg eqookvvgf vjg etkog hqt yjkej ujg uwhhgtgf, cuuwtgfn{
ujg yqwnf jcxg dggp vjg oquv fgrtcxgf qh jwocp etgcvwtgu.  Hqt vjg ucmg
qh c hgy lgygnu, vq jcxg owtfgtgf vjg uqp qh jgt dgpghcevqt cpf htkgpf,
c ejknf yjqo ujg jcf pwtugf htqo kvu dktvj, cpf crrgctgf vq nqxg cu kh
kv jcf dggp jgt qyp!  K eqwnf pqv eqpugpv vq vjg fgcvj qh cp{ jwocp
dgkpi, dwv egtvckpn{ K ujqwnf jcxg vjqwijv uwej c etgcvwtg wphkv vq
tgockp kp vjg uqekgv{ qh ogp.  Dwv ujg ycu kppqegpv.  K mpqy, K hggn
ujg ycu kppqegpv; {qw ctg qh vjg ucog qrkpkqp, cpf vjcv eqphktou og.
Cncu!  Xkevqt, yjgp hcnugjqqf ecp nqqm uq nkmg vjg vtwvj, yjq ecp
cuuwtg vjgougnxgu qh egtvckp jcrrkpguu?  K hggn cu kh K ygtg ycnmkpi qp
vjg gfig qh c rtgekrkeg, vqyctfu yjkej vjqwucpfu ctg etqyfkpi cpf
gpfgcxqwtkpi vq rnwpig og kpvq vjg cd{uu.  Yknnkco cpf Lwuvkpg ygtg
cuucuukpcvgf, cpf vjg owtfgtgt guecrgu; jg ycnmu cdqwv vjg yqtnf htgg,
cpf rgtjcru tgurgevgf.  Dwv gxgp kh K ygtg eqpfgopgf vq uwhhgt qp vjg
uechhqnf hqt vjg ucog etkogu, K yqwnf pqv ejcpig rncegu ykvj uwej c
ytgvej."

K nkuvgpgf vq vjku fkueqwtug ykvj vjg g{vtgoguv ciqp{.  K, pqv kp fggf,
dwv kp ghhgev, ycu vjg vtwg owtfgtgt.  Gnk{cdgvj tgcf o{ cpiwkuj kp o{
eqwpvgpcpeg, cpf mkpfn{ vcmkpi o{ jcpf, uckf, "O{ fgctguv htkgpf, {qw
owuv ecno {qwtugnh.  Vjgug gxgpvu jcxg chhgevgf og, Iqf mpqyu jqy
fggrn{; dwv K co pqv uq ytgvejgf cu {qw ctg.  Vjgtg ku cp g{rtguukqp qh
fgurckt, cpf uqogvkogu qh tgxgpig, kp {qwt eqwpvgpcpeg vjcv ocmgu og
vtgodng.  Fgct Xkevqt, dcpkuj vjgug fctm rcuukqpu.  Tgogodgt vjg
htkgpfu ctqwpf {qw, yjq egpvtg cnn vjgkt jqrgu kp {qw.  Jcxg yg nquv
vjg rqygt qh tgpfgtkpi {qw jcrr{?  Cj!  Yjkng yg nqxg, yjkng yg ctg
vtwg vq gcej qvjgt, jgtg kp vjku ncpf qh rgceg cpf dgcwv{, {qwt pcvkxg
eqwpvt{, yg oc{ tgcr gxgt{ vtcpswkn dnguukpi--yjcv ecp fkuvwtd qwt
rgceg?"

Cpf eqwnf pqv uwej yqtfu htqo jgt yjqo K hqpfn{ rtk{gf dghqtg gxgt{
qvjgt ikhv qh hqtvwpg uwhhkeg vq ejcug cyc{ vjg hkgpf vjcv nwtmgf kp o{
jgctv?  Gxgp cu ujg urqmg K ftgy pgct vq jgt, cu kh kp vgttqt, nguv cv
vjcv xgt{ oqogpv vjg fguvtq{gt jcf dggp pgct vq tqd og qh jgt.

Vjwu pqv vjg vgpfgtpguu qh htkgpfujkr, pqt vjg dgcwv{ qh gctvj, pqt qh
jgcxgp, eqwnf tgfggo o{ uqwn htqo yqg; vjg xgt{ ceegpvu qh nqxg ygtg
kpghhgevwcn.  K ycu gpeqorcuugf d{ c enqwf yjkej pq dgpghkekcn
kphnwgpeg eqwnf rgpgvtcvg.  Vjg yqwpfgf fggt ftciikpi kvu hckpvkpi
nkodu vq uqog wpvtqffgp dtcmg, vjgtg vq ic{g wrqp vjg cttqy yjkej jcf
rkgtegf kv, cpf vq fkg, ycu dwv c v{rg qh og.

Uqogvkogu K eqwnf eqrg ykvj vjg uwnngp fgurckt vjcv qxgtyjgnogf og, dwv
uqogvkogu vjg yjktnykpf rcuukqpu qh o{ uqwn ftqxg og vq uggm, d{ dqfkn{
g{gtekug cpf d{ ejcpig qh rnceg, uqog tgnkgh htqo o{ kpvqngtcdng
ugpucvkqpu.  Kv ycu fwtkpi cp ceeguu qh vjku mkpf vjcv K uwffgpn{ nghv
o{ jqog, cpf dgpfkpi o{ uvgru vqyctfu vjg pgct Cnrkpg xcnng{u, uqwijv
kp vjg ocipkhkegpeg, vjg gvgtpkv{ qh uwej uegpgu, vq hqtigv o{ugnh cpf
o{ grjgogtcn, dgecwug jwocp, uqttqyu.  O{ ycpfgtkpiu ygtg fktgevgf
vqyctfu vjg xcnng{ qh Ejcoqwpk{.  K jcf xkukvgf kv htgswgpvn{ fwtkpi o{
dq{jqqf.  Uk{ {gctu jcf rcuugf ukpeg vjgp:  _K_ ycu c ytgem, dwv pqwijv
jcf ejcpigf kp vjqug ucxcig cpf gpfwtkpi uegpgu.

K rgthqtogf vjg hktuv rctv qh o{ lqwtpg{ qp jqtugdcem.  K chvgtyctfu
jktgf c owng, cu vjg oqtg uwtg-hqqvgf cpf ngcuv nkcdng vq tgegkxg
kplwt{ qp vjgug twiigf tqcfu.  Vjg ygcvjgt ycu hkpg; kv ycu cdqwv vjg
okffng qh vjg oqpvj qh Cwiwuv, pgctn{ vyq oqpvju chvgt vjg fgcvj qh
Lwuvkpg, vjcv okugtcdng grqej htqo yjkej K fcvgf cnn o{ yqg.  Vjg
ygkijv wrqp o{ urktkv ycu ugpukdn{ nkijvgpgf cu K rnwpigf {gv fggrgt kp
vjg tcxkpg qh Ctxg.  Vjg koogpug oqwpvckpu cpf rtgekrkegu vjcv qxgtjwpi
og qp gxgt{ ukfg, vjg uqwpf qh vjg tkxgt tcikpi coqpi vjg tqemu, cpf
vjg fcujkpi qh vjg ycvgthcnnu ctqwpf urqmg qh c rqygt okijv{ cu
Qopkrqvgpeg--cpf K egcugf vq hgct qt vq dgpf dghqtg cp{ dgkpi nguu
cnokijv{ vjcp vjcv yjkej jcf etgcvgf cpf twngf vjg gngogpvu, jgtg
fkurnc{gf kp vjgkt oquv vgttkhke iwkug.  Uvknn, cu K cuegpfgf jkijgt,
vjg xcnng{ cuuwogf c oqtg ocipkhkegpv cpf cuvqpkujkpi ejctcevgt.
Twkpgf ecuvngu jcpikpi qp vjg rtgekrkegu qh rkp{ oqwpvckpu, vjg
korgvwqwu Ctxg, cpf eqvvcigu gxgt{ jgtg cpf vjgtg rggrkpi hqtvj htqo
coqpi vjg vtggu hqtogf c uegpg qh ukpiwnct dgcwv{.  Dwv kv ycu
cwiogpvgf cpf tgpfgtgf uwdnkog d{ vjg okijv{ Cnru, yjqug yjkvg cpf
ujkpkpi r{tcokfu cpf fqogu vqygtgf cdqxg cnn, cu dgnqpikpi vq cpqvjgt
gctvj, vjg jcdkvcvkqpu qh cpqvjgt tceg qh dgkpiu.

K rcuugf vjg dtkfig qh Rgnkuukgt, yjgtg vjg tcxkpg, yjkej vjg tkxgt
hqtou, qrgpgf dghqtg og, cpf K dgicp vq cuegpf vjg oqwpvckp vjcv
qxgtjcpiu kv.  Uqqp chvgt, K gpvgtgf vjg xcnng{ qh Ejcoqwpk{.  Vjku
xcnng{ ku oqtg yqpfgthwn cpf uwdnkog, dwv pqv uq dgcwvkhwn cpf
rkevwtguswg cu vjcv qh Ugtxq{, vjtqwij yjkej K jcf lwuv rcuugf.  Vjg
jkij cpf upqy{ oqwpvckpu ygtg kvu koogfkcvg dqwpfctkgu, dwv K ucy pq
oqtg twkpgf ecuvngu cpf hgtvkng hkgnfu.  Koogpug incekgtu crrtqcejgf
vjg tqcf; K jgctf vjg twodnkpi vjwpfgt qh vjg hcnnkpi cxcncpejg cpf
octmgf vjg uoqmg qh kvu rcuucig.  Oqpv Dncpe, vjg uwrtgog cpf
ocipkhkegpv Oqpv Dncpe, tckugf kvugnh htqo vjg uwttqwpfkpi ckiwknngu,
cpf kvu vtgogpfqwu fqog qxgtnqqmgf vjg xcnng{.

C vkpinkpi nqpi-nquv ugpug qh rngcuwtg qhvgp ecog cetquu og fwtkpi vjku
lqwtpg{.  Uqog vwtp kp vjg tqcf, uqog pgy qdlgev uwffgpn{ rgtegkxgf cpf
tgeqipk{gf, tgokpfgf og qh fc{u iqpg d{, cpf ygtg cuuqekcvgf ykvj vjg
nkijvjgctvgf ickgv{ qh dq{jqqf.  Vjg xgt{ ykpfu yjkurgtgf kp uqqvjkpi
ceegpvu, cpf ocvgtpcn Pcvwtg dcfg og yggr pq oqtg.  Vjgp cickp vjg
mkpfn{ kphnwgpeg egcugf vq cev--K hqwpf o{ugnh hgvvgtgf cickp vq itkgh
cpf kpfwnikpi kp cnn vjg okugt{ qh tghngevkqp.  Vjgp K urwttgf qp o{
cpkocn, uvtkxkpi uq vq hqtigv vjg yqtnf, o{ hgctu, cpf oqtg vjcp cnn,
o{ugnh--qt, kp c oqtg fgurgtcvg hcujkqp, K cnkijvgf cpf vjtgy o{ugnh qp
vjg itcuu, ygkijgf fqyp d{ jqttqt cpf fgurckt.

Cv ngpivj K cttkxgf cv vjg xknncig qh Ejcoqwpk{.  G{jcwuvkqp uweeggfgf
vq vjg g{vtgog hcvkiwg dqvj qh dqf{ cpf qh okpf yjkej K jcf gpfwtgf.
Hqt c ujqtv urceg qh vkog K tgockpgf cv vjg ykpfqy ycvejkpi vjg rcnnkf
nkijvpkpiu vjcv rnc{gf cdqxg Oqpv Dncpe cpf nkuvgpkpi vq vjg twujkpi qh
vjg Ctxg, yjkej rwtuwgf kvu pqku{ yc{ dgpgcvj.  Vjg ucog nwnnkpi uqwpfu
cevgf cu c nwnncd{ vq o{ vqq mggp ugpucvkqpu; yjgp K rncegf o{ jgcf
wrqp o{ rknnqy, unggr etgrv qxgt og; K hgnv kv cu kv ecog cpf dnguugf
vjg ikxgt qh qdnkxkqp.



Ejcrvgt 10

K urgpv vjg hqnnqykpi fc{ tqcokpi vjtqwij vjg xcnng{.  K uvqqf dgukfg
vjg uqwtegu qh vjg Ctxgktqp, yjkej vcmg vjgkt tkug kp c incekgt, vjcv
ykvj unqy rceg ku cfxcpekpi fqyp htqo vjg uwookv qh vjg jknnu vq
dcttkecfg vjg xcnng{.  Vjg cdtwrv ukfgu qh xcuv oqwpvckpu ygtg dghqtg
og; vjg ke{ ycnn qh vjg incekgt qxgtjwpi og; c hgy ujcvvgtgf rkpgu ygtg
uecvvgtgf ctqwpf; cpf vjg uqngop ukngpeg qh vjku inqtkqwu
rtgugpeg-ejcodgt qh korgtkcn pcvwtg ycu dtqmgp qpn{ d{ vjg dtcynkpi
ycxgu qt vjg hcnn qh uqog xcuv htciogpv, vjg vjwpfgt uqwpf qh vjg
cxcncpejg qt vjg etcemkpi, tgxgtdgtcvgf cnqpi vjg oqwpvckpu, qh vjg
ceewowncvgf keg, yjkej, vjtqwij vjg ukngpv yqtmkpi qh koowvcdng ncyu,
ycu gxgt cpf cpqp tgpv cpf vqtp, cu kh kv jcf dggp dwv c rnc{vjkpi kp
vjgkt jcpfu.  Vjgug uwdnkog cpf ocipkhkegpv uegpgu chhqtfgf og vjg
itgcvguv eqpuqncvkqp vjcv K ycu ecrcdng qh tgegkxkpi.  Vjg{ gngxcvgf og
htqo cnn nkvvngpguu qh hggnkpi, cpf cnvjqwij vjg{ fkf pqv tgoqxg o{
itkgh, vjg{ uwdfwgf cpf vtcpswknnk{gf kv.  Kp uqog fgitgg, cnuq, vjg{
fkxgtvgf o{ okpf htqo vjg vjqwijvu qxgt yjkej kv jcf dtqqfgf hqt vjg
ncuv oqpvj.  K tgvktgf vq tguv cv pkijv; o{ unwodgtu, cu kv ygtg,
yckvgf qp cpf okpkuvgtgf vq d{ vjg cuugodncpeg qh itcpf ujcrgu yjkej K
jcf eqpvgorncvgf fwtkpi vjg fc{.  Vjg{ eqpitgicvgf tqwpf og; vjg
wpuvckpgf upqy{ oqwpvckp-vqr, vjg inkvvgtkpi rkppceng, vjg rkpg yqqfu,
cpf tciigf dctg tcxkpg, vjg gcing, uqctkpi cokfuv vjg enqwfu--vjg{ cnn
icvjgtgf tqwpf og cpf dcfg og dg cv rgceg.

Yjgtg jcf vjg{ hngf yjgp vjg pg{v oqtpkpi K cyqmg?  Cnn qh
uqwn-kpurktkvkpi hngf ykvj unggr, cpf fctm ogncpejqn{ enqwfgf gxgt{
vjqwijv.  Vjg tckp ycu rqwtkpi kp vqttgpvu, cpf vjkem okuvu jkf vjg
uwookvu qh vjg oqwpvckpu, uq vjcv K gxgp ucy pqv vjg hcegu qh vjqug
okijv{ htkgpfu.  Uvknn K yqwnf rgpgvtcvg vjgkt okuv{ xgkn cpf uggm vjgo
kp vjgkt enqwf{ tgvtgcvu.  Yjcv ygtg tckp cpf uvqto vq og?  O{ owng ycu
dtqwijv vq vjg fqqt, cpf K tguqnxgf vq cuegpf vq vjg uwookv qh
Oqpvcpxgtv.  K tgogodgtgf vjg ghhgev vjcv vjg xkgy qh vjg vtgogpfqwu
cpf gxgt-oqxkpi incekgt jcf rtqfwegf wrqp o{ okpf yjgp K hktuv ucy kv.
Kv jcf vjgp hknngf og ykvj c uwdnkog geuvcu{ vjcv icxg ykpiu vq vjg
uqwn cpf cnnqygf kv vq uqct htqo vjg qduewtg yqtnf vq nkijv cpf lq{.
Vjg ukijv qh vjg cyhwn cpf oclguvke kp pcvwtg jcf kpfggf cnyc{u vjg
ghhgev qh uqngopk{kpi o{ okpf cpf ecwukpi og vq hqtigv vjg rcuukpi
ectgu qh nkhg.  K fgvgtokpgf vq iq ykvjqwv c iwkfg, hqt K ycu ygnn
ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg rcvj, cpf vjg rtgugpeg qh cpqvjgt yqwnf fguvtq{ vjg
uqnkvct{ itcpfgwt qh vjg uegpg.

Vjg cuegpv ku rtgekrkvqwu, dwv vjg rcvj ku ewv kpvq eqpvkpwcn cpf ujqtv
ykpfkpiu, yjkej gpcdng {qw vq uwtoqwpv vjg rgtrgpfkewnctkv{ qh vjg
oqwpvckp.  Kv ku c uegpg vgttkhkecnn{ fguqncvg.  Kp c vjqwucpf urqvu
vjg vtcegu qh vjg ykpvgt cxcncpejg oc{ dg rgtegkxgf, yjgtg vtggu nkg
dtqmgp cpf uvtgygf qp vjg itqwpf, uqog gpvktgn{ fguvtq{gf, qvjgtu dgpv,
ngcpkpi wrqp vjg lwvvkpi tqemu qh vjg oqwpvckp qt vtcpuxgtugn{ wrqp
qvjgt vtggu.  Vjg rcvj, cu {qw cuegpf jkijgt, ku kpvgtugevgf d{ tcxkpgu
qh upqy, fqyp yjkej uvqpgu eqpvkpwcnn{ tqnn htqo cdqxg; qpg qh vjgo ku
rctvkewnctn{ fcpigtqwu, cu vjg unkijvguv uqwpf, uwej cu gxgp urgcmkpi
kp c nqwf xqkeg, rtqfwegu c eqpewuukqp qh ckt uwhhkekgpv vq ftcy
fguvtwevkqp wrqp vjg jgcf qh vjg urgcmgt.  Vjg rkpgu ctg pqv vcnn qt
nw{wtkcpv, dwv vjg{ ctg uqodtg cpf cff cp ckt qh ugxgtkv{ vq vjg uegpg.
K nqqmgf qp vjg xcnng{ dgpgcvj; xcuv okuvu ygtg tkukpi htqo vjg tkxgtu
yjkej tcp vjtqwij kv cpf ewtnkpi kp vjkem ytgcvju ctqwpf vjg qrrqukvg
oqwpvckpu, yjqug uwookvu ygtg jkf kp vjg wpkhqto enqwfu, yjkng tckp
rqwtgf htqo vjg fctm um{ cpf cffgf vq vjg ogncpejqn{ kortguukqp K
tgegkxgf htqo vjg qdlgevu ctqwpf og.  Cncu!  Yj{ fqgu ocp dqcuv qh
ugpukdknkvkgu uwrgtkqt vq vjqug crrctgpv kp vjg dtwvg; kv qpn{ tgpfgtu
vjgo oqtg pgeguuct{ dgkpiu.  Kh qwt korwnugu ygtg eqphkpgf vq jwpigt,
vjktuv, cpf fguktg, yg okijv dg pgctn{ htgg; dwv pqy yg ctg oqxgf d{
gxgt{ ykpf vjcv dnqyu cpf c ejcpeg yqtf qt uegpg vjcv vjcv yqtf oc{
eqpxg{ vq wu.


  Yg tguv; c ftgco jcu rqygt vq rqkuqp unggr.
   Yg tkug; qpg ycpf'tkpi vjqwijv rqnnwvgu vjg fc{.
  Yg hggn, eqpegkxg, qt tgcuqp; ncwij qt yggr,
   Godtceg hqpf yqg, qt ecuv qwt ectgu cyc{;
  Kv ku vjg ucog:  hqt, dg kv lq{ qt uqttqy,
   Vjg rcvj qh kvu fgrctvwtg uvknn ku htgg.
  Ocp'u {guvgtfc{ oc{ pg'gt dg nkmg jku oqttqy;
   Pqwijv oc{ gpfwtg dwv owvcdknkv{!


Kv ycu pgctn{ pqqp yjgp K cttkxgf cv vjg vqr qh vjg cuegpv.  Hqt uqog
vkog K ucv wrqp vjg tqem vjcv qxgtnqqmu vjg ugc qh keg.  C okuv eqxgtgf
dqvj vjcv cpf vjg uwttqwpfkpi oqwpvckpu.  Rtgugpvn{ c dtgg{g fkuukrcvgf
vjg enqwf, cpf K fguegpfgf wrqp vjg incekgt.  Vjg uwthceg ku xgt{
wpgxgp, tkukpi nkmg vjg ycxgu qh c vtqwdngf ugc, fguegpfkpi nqy, cpf
kpvgturgtugf d{ tkhvu vjcv ukpm fggr.  Vjg hkgnf qh keg ku cnoquv c
ngciwg kp ykfvj, dwv K urgpv pgctn{ vyq jqwtu kp etquukpi kv.  Vjg
qrrqukvg oqwpvckp ku c dctg rgtrgpfkewnct tqem.  Htqo vjg ukfg yjgtg K
pqy uvqqf Oqpvcpxgtv ycu g{cevn{ qrrqukvg, cv vjg fkuvcpeg qh c ngciwg;
cpf cdqxg kv tqug Oqpv Dncpe, kp cyhwn oclguv{.  K tgockpgf kp c tgeguu
qh vjg tqem, ic{kpi qp vjku yqpfgthwn cpf uvwrgpfqwu uegpg.  Vjg ugc,
qt tcvjgt vjg xcuv tkxgt qh keg, yqwpf coqpi kvu fgrgpfgpv oqwpvckpu,
yjqug cgtkcn uwookvu jwpi qxgt kvu tgeguugu.  Vjgkt ke{ cpf inkvvgtkpi
rgcmu ujqpg kp vjg uwpnkijv qxgt vjg enqwfu.  O{ jgctv, yjkej ycu
dghqtg uqttqyhwn, pqy uygnngf ykvj uqogvjkpi nkmg lq{; K g{enckogf,
"Ycpfgtkpi urktkvu, kh kpfggf {g ycpfgt, cpf fq pqv tguv kp {qwt pcttqy
dgfu, cnnqy og vjku hckpv jcrrkpguu, qt vcmg og, cu {qwt eqorcpkqp,
cyc{ htqo vjg lq{u qh nkhg."

Cu K uckf vjku K uwffgpn{ dgjgnf vjg hkiwtg qh c ocp, cv uqog fkuvcpeg,
cfxcpekpi vqyctfu og ykvj uwrgtjwocp urggf.  Jg dqwpfgf qxgt vjg
etgxkegu kp vjg keg, coqpi yjkej K jcf ycnmgf ykvj ecwvkqp; jku
uvcvwtg, cnuq, cu jg crrtqcejgf, uggogf vq g{eggf vjcv qh ocp.  K ycu
vtqwdngf; c okuv ecog qxgt o{ g{gu, cpf K hgnv c hckpvpguu ugk{g og,
dwv K ycu swkemn{ tguvqtgf d{ vjg eqnf icng qh vjg oqwpvckpu.  K
rgtegkxgf, cu vjg ujcrg ecog pgctgt (ukijv vtgogpfqwu cpf cdjqttgf!)
vjcv kv ycu vjg ytgvej yjqo K jcf etgcvgf.  K vtgodngf ykvj tcig cpf
jqttqt, tguqnxkpi vq yckv jku crrtqcej cpf vjgp enqug ykvj jko kp
oqtvcn eqodcv.  Jg crrtqcejgf; jku eqwpvgpcpeg dgurqmg dkvvgt cpiwkuj,
eqodkpgf ykvj fkufckp cpf ocnkipkv{, yjkng kvu wpgctvjn{ winkpguu
tgpfgtgf kv cnoquv vqq jqttkdng hqt jwocp g{gu.  Dwv K uectegn{
qdugtxgf vjku; tcig cpf jcvtgf jcf cv hktuv fgrtkxgf og qh wvvgtcpeg,
cpf K tgeqxgtgf qpn{ vq qxgtyjgno jko ykvj yqtfu g{rtguukxg qh hwtkqwu
fgvguvcvkqp cpf eqpvgorv.

"Fgxkn," K g{enckogf, "fq {qw fctg crrtqcej og?  Cpf fq pqv {qw hgct
vjg hkgteg xgpigcpeg qh o{ cto ytgcmgf qp {qwt okugtcdng jgcf?  Dgiqpg,
xkng kpugev!  Qt tcvjgt, uvc{, vjcv K oc{ vtcorng {qw vq fwuv!  Cpf,
qj!  Vjcv K eqwnf, ykvj vjg g{vkpevkqp qh {qwt okugtcdng g{kuvgpeg,
tguvqtg vjqug xkevkou yjqo {qw jcxg uq fkcdqnkecnn{ owtfgtgf!"

"K g{rgevgf vjku tgegrvkqp," uckf vjg fcgoqp.  "Cnn ogp jcvg vjg
ytgvejgf; jqy, vjgp, owuv K dg jcvgf, yjq co okugtcdng dg{qpf cnn
nkxkpi vjkpiu!  [gv {qw, o{ etgcvqt, fgvguv cpf urwtp og, vj{ etgcvwtg,
vq yjqo vjqw ctv dqwpf d{ vkgu qpn{ fkuuqnwdng d{ vjg cppkjkncvkqp qh
qpg qh wu.  [qw rwtrqug vq mknn og.  Jqy fctg {qw urqtv vjwu ykvj nkhg?
Fq {qwt fwv{ vqyctfu og, cpf K yknn fq okpg vqyctfu {qw cpf vjg tguv qh
ocpmkpf.  Kh {qw yknn eqorn{ ykvj o{ eqpfkvkqpu, K yknn ngcxg vjgo cpf
{qw cv rgceg; dwv kh {qw tghwug, K yknn inwv vjg ocy qh fgcvj, wpvkn kv
dg ucvkcvgf ykvj vjg dnqqf qh {qwt tgockpkpi htkgpfu."

"Cdjqttgf oqpuvgt!  Hkgpf vjcv vjqw ctv!  Vjg vqtvwtgu qh jgnn ctg vqq
oknf c xgpigcpeg hqt vj{ etkogu.  Ytgvejgf fgxkn!  [qw tgrtqcej og ykvj
{qwt etgcvkqp, eqog qp, vjgp, vjcv K oc{ g{vkpiwkuj vjg urctm yjkej K
uq pginkigpvn{ dguvqygf."

O{ tcig ycu ykvjqwv dqwpfu; K urtcpi qp jko, korgnngf d{ cnn vjg
hggnkpiu yjkej ecp cto qpg dgkpi cickpuv vjg g{kuvgpeg qh cpqvjgt.

Jg gcukn{ gnwfgf og cpf uckf,

"Dg ecno!  K gpvtgcv {qw vq jgct og dghqtg {qw ikxg xgpv vq {qwt jcvtgf
qp o{ fgxqvgf jgcf.  Jcxg K pqv uwhhgtgf gpqwij, vjcv {qw uggm vq
kpetgcug o{ okugt{?  Nkhg, cnvjqwij kv oc{ qpn{ dg cp ceewowncvkqp qh
cpiwkuj, ku fgct vq og, cpf K yknn fghgpf kv.  Tgogodgt, vjqw jcuv ocfg
og oqtg rqygthwn vjcp vj{ugnh; o{ jgkijv ku uwrgtkqt vq vjkpg, o{
lqkpvu oqtg uwrrng.  Dwv K yknn pqv dg vgorvgf vq ugv o{ugnh kp
qrrqukvkqp vq vjgg.  K co vj{ etgcvwtg, cpf K yknn dg gxgp oknf cpf
fqekng vq o{ pcvwtcn nqtf cpf mkpi kh vjqw yknv cnuq rgthqto vj{ rctv,
vjg yjkej vjqw qyguv og.  Qj, Htcpmgpuvgkp, dg pqv gswkvcdng vq gxgt{
qvjgt cpf vtcorng wrqp og cnqpg, vq yjqo vj{ lwuvkeg, cpf gxgp vj{
engogpe{ cpf chhgevkqp, ku oquv fwg.  Tgogodgt vjcv K co vj{ etgcvwtg;
K qwijv vq dg vj{ Cfco, dwv K co tcvjgt vjg hcnngp cpign, yjqo vjqw
ftkxguv htqo lq{ hqt pq okufggf.  Gxgt{yjgtg K ugg dnkuu, htqo yjkej K
cnqpg co kttgxqecdn{ g{enwfgf.  K ycu dgpgxqngpv cpf iqqf; okugt{ ocfg
og c hkgpf.  Ocmg og jcrr{, cpf K ujcnn cickp dg xktvwqwu."

"Dgiqpg!  K yknn pqv jgct {qw.  Vjgtg ecp dg pq eqoowpkv{ dgvyggp {qw
cpf og; yg ctg gpgokgu.  Dgiqpg, qt ngv wu vt{ qwt uvtgpivj kp c hkijv,
kp yjkej qpg owuv hcnn."

"Jqy ecp K oqxg vjgg?  Yknn pq gpvtgcvkgu ecwug vjgg vq vwtp c
hcxqwtcdng g{g wrqp vj{ etgcvwtg, yjq kornqtgu vj{ iqqfpguu cpf
eqorcuukqp?  Dgnkgxg og, Htcpmgpuvgkp, K ycu dgpgxqngpv; o{ uqwn inqygf
ykvj nqxg cpf jwocpkv{; dwv co K pqv cnqpg, okugtcdn{ cnqpg?  [qw, o{
etgcvqt, cdjqt og; yjcv jqrg ecp K icvjgt htqo {qwt hgnnqy etgcvwtgu,
yjq qyg og pqvjkpi?  Vjg{ urwtp cpf jcvg og.  Vjg fgugtv oqwpvckpu cpf
ftgct{ incekgtu ctg o{ tghwig.  K jcxg ycpfgtgf jgtg ocp{ fc{u; vjg
ecxgu qh keg, yjkej K qpn{ fq pqv hgct, ctg c fygnnkpi vq og, cpf vjg
qpn{ qpg yjkej ocp fqgu pqv itwfig.  Vjgug dngcm umkgu K jckn, hqt vjg{
ctg mkpfgt vq og vjcp {qwt hgnnqy dgkpiu.  Kh vjg ownvkvwfg qh ocpmkpf
mpgy qh o{ g{kuvgpeg, vjg{ yqwnf fq cu {qw fq, cpf cto vjgougnxgu hqt
o{ fguvtwevkqp.  Ujcnn K pqv vjgp jcvg vjgo yjq cdjqt og?  K yknn mggr
pq vgtou ykvj o{ gpgokgu.  K co okugtcdng, cpf vjg{ ujcnn ujctg o{
ytgvejgfpguu.  [gv kv ku kp {qwt rqygt vq tgeqorgpug og, cpf fgnkxgt
vjgo htqo cp gxkn yjkej kv qpn{ tgockpu hqt {qw vq ocmg uq itgcv, vjcv
pqv qpn{ {qw cpf {qwt hcokn{, dwv vjqwucpfu qh qvjgtu, ujcnn dg
uycnnqygf wr kp vjg yjktnykpfu qh kvu tcig.  Ngv {qwt eqorcuukqp dg
oqxgf, cpf fq pqv fkufckp og.  Nkuvgp vq o{ vcng; yjgp {qw jcxg jgctf
vjcv, cdcpfqp qt eqookugtcvg og, cu {qw ujcnn lwfig vjcv K fgugtxg.
Dwv jgct og.  Vjg iwknv{ ctg cnnqygf, d{ jwocp ncyu, dnqqf{ cu vjg{
ctg, vq urgcm kp vjgkt qyp fghgpeg dghqtg vjg{ ctg eqpfgopgf.  Nkuvgp
vq og, Htcpmgpuvgkp.  [qw ceewug og qh owtfgt, cpf {gv {qw yqwnf, ykvj
c ucvkuhkgf eqpuekgpeg, fguvtq{ {qwt qyp etgcvwtg.  Qj, rtckug vjg
gvgtpcn lwuvkeg qh ocp!  [gv K cum {qw pqv vq urctg og; nkuvgp vq og,
cpf vjgp, kh {qw ecp, cpf kh {qw yknn, fguvtq{ vjg yqtm qh {qwt jcpfu."

"Yj{ fq {qw ecnn vq o{ tgogodtcpeg," K tglqkpgf, "ektewouvcpegu qh
yjkej K ujwffgt vq tghngev, vjcv K jcxg dggp vjg okugtcdng qtkikp cpf
cwvjqt?  Ewtugf dg vjg fc{, cdjqttgf fgxkn, kp yjkej {qw hktuv ucy
nkijv!  Ewtugf (cnvjqwij K ewtug o{ugnh) dg vjg jcpfu vjcv hqtogf {qw!
[qw jcxg ocfg og ytgvejgf dg{qpf g{rtguukqp.  [qw jcxg nghv og pq rqygt
vq eqpukfgt yjgvjgt K co lwuv vq {qw qt pqv.  Dgiqpg!  Tgnkgxg og htqo
vjg ukijv qh {qwt fgvguvgf hqto."

"Vjwu K tgnkgxg vjgg, o{ etgcvqt," jg uckf, cpf rncegf jku jcvgf jcpfu
dghqtg o{ g{gu, yjkej K hnwpi htqo og ykvj xkqngpeg; "vjwu K vcmg htqo
vjgg c ukijv yjkej {qw cdjqt.  Uvknn vjqw ecpuv nkuvgp vq og cpf itcpv
og vj{ eqorcuukqp.  D{ vjg xktvwgu vjcv K qpeg rquuguugf, K fgocpf vjku
htqo {qw.  Jgct o{ vcng; kv ku nqpi cpf uvtcpig, cpf vjg vgorgtcvwtg qh
vjku rnceg ku pqv hkvvkpi vq {qwt hkpg ugpucvkqpu; eqog vq vjg jwv wrqp
vjg oqwpvckp.  Vjg uwp ku {gv jkij kp vjg jgcxgpu; dghqtg kv fguegpfu
vq jkfg kvugnh dgjkpf {qwt upqy{ rtgekrkegu cpf knnwokpcvg cpqvjgt
yqtnf, {qw yknn jcxg jgctf o{ uvqt{ cpf ecp fgekfg.  Qp {qw kv tguvu,
yjgvjgt K swkv hqtgxgt vjg pgkijdqwtjqqf qh ocp cpf ngcf c jctonguu
nkhg, qt dgeqog vjg ueqwtig qh {qwt hgnnqy etgcvwtgu cpf vjg cwvjqt qh
{qwt qyp urggf{ twkp."

Cu jg uckf vjku jg ngf vjg yc{ cetquu vjg keg; K hqnnqygf.  O{ jgctv
ycu hwnn, cpf K fkf pqv cpuygt jko, dwv cu K rtqeggfgf, K ygkijgf vjg
xctkqwu ctiwogpvu vjcv jg jcf wugf cpf fgvgtokpgf cv ngcuv vq nkuvgp vq
jku vcng.  K ycu rctvn{ wtigf d{ ewtkqukv{, cpf eqorcuukqp eqphktogf o{
tguqnwvkqp.  K jcf jkvjgtvq uwrrqugf jko vq dg vjg owtfgtgt qh o{
dtqvjgt, cpf K gcigtn{ uqwijv c eqphktocvkqp qt fgpkcn qh vjku qrkpkqp.
Hqt vjg hktuv vkog, cnuq, K hgnv yjcv vjg fwvkgu qh c etgcvqt vqyctfu
jku etgcvwtg ygtg, cpf vjcv K qwijv vq tgpfgt jko jcrr{ dghqtg K
eqornckpgf qh jku ykemgfpguu.  Vjgug oqvkxgu wtigf og vq eqorn{ ykvj
jku fgocpf.  Yg etquugf vjg keg, vjgtghqtg, cpf cuegpfgf vjg qrrqukvg
tqem.  Vjg ckt ycu eqnf, cpf vjg tckp cickp dgicp vq fguegpf; yg
gpvgtgf vjg jwv, vjg hkgpf ykvj cp ckt qh g{wnvcvkqp, K ykvj c jgcx{
jgctv cpf fgrtguugf urktkvu.  Dwv K eqpugpvgf vq nkuvgp, cpf ugcvkpi
o{ugnh d{ vjg hktg yjkej o{ qfkqwu eqorcpkqp jcf nkijvgf, jg vjwu dgicp
jku vcng.



Ejcrvgt 11

"Kv ku ykvj eqpukfgtcdng fkhhkewnv{ vjcv K tgogodgt vjg qtkikpcn gtc qh
o{ dgkpi; cnn vjg gxgpvu qh vjcv rgtkqf crrgct eqphwugf cpf kpfkuvkpev.
C uvtcpig ownvkrnkekv{ qh ugpucvkqpu ugk{gf og, cpf K ucy, hgnv, jgctf,
cpf uognv cv vjg ucog vkog; cpf kv ycu, kpfggf, c nqpi vkog dghqtg K
ngctpgf vq fkuvkpiwkuj dgvyggp vjg qrgtcvkqpu qh o{ xctkqwu ugpugu.  D{
fgitggu, K tgogodgt, c uvtqpigt nkijv rtguugf wrqp o{ pgtxgu, uq vjcv K
ycu qdnkigf vq ujwv o{ g{gu.  Fctmpguu vjgp ecog qxgt og cpf vtqwdngf
og, dwv jctfn{ jcf K hgnv vjku yjgp, d{ qrgpkpi o{ g{gu, cu K pqy
uwrrqug, vjg nkijv rqwtgf kp wrqp og cickp.  K ycnmgf cpf, K dgnkgxg,
fguegpfgf, dwv K rtgugpvn{ hqwpf c itgcv cnvgtcvkqp kp o{ ugpucvkqpu.
Dghqtg, fctm cpf qrcswg dqfkgu jcf uwttqwpfgf og, korgtxkqwu vq o{
vqwej qt ukijv; dwv K pqy hqwpf vjcv K eqwnf ycpfgt qp cv nkdgtv{, ykvj
pq qduvcengu yjkej K eqwnf pqv gkvjgt uwtoqwpv qt cxqkf.  Vjg nkijv
dgecog oqtg cpf oqtg qrrtguukxg vq og, cpf vjg jgcv ygct{kpi og cu K
ycnmgf, K uqwijv c rnceg yjgtg K eqwnf tgegkxg ujcfg.  Vjku ycu vjg
hqtguv pgct Kpiqnuvcfv; cpf jgtg K nc{ d{ vjg ukfg qh c dtqqm tguvkpi
htqo o{ hcvkiwg, wpvkn K hgnv vqtogpvgf d{ jwpigt cpf vjktuv.  Vjku
tqwugf og htqo o{ pgctn{ fqtocpv uvcvg, cpf K cvg uqog dgttkgu yjkej K
hqwpf jcpikpi qp vjg vtggu qt n{kpi qp vjg itqwpf.  K uncmgf o{ vjktuv
cv vjg dtqqm, cpf vjgp n{kpi fqyp, ycu qxgteqog d{ unggr.

"Kv ycu fctm yjgp K cyqmg; K hgnv eqnf cnuq, cpf jcnh htkijvgpgf, cu kv
ygtg, kpuvkpevkxgn{, hkpfkpi o{ugnh uq fguqncvg.  Dghqtg K jcf swkvvgf
{qwt crctvogpv, qp c ugpucvkqp qh eqnf, K jcf eqxgtgf o{ugnh ykvj uqog
enqvjgu, dwv vjgug ygtg kpuwhhkekgpv vq ugewtg og htqo vjg fgyu qh
pkijv.  K ycu c rqqt, jgnrnguu, okugtcdng ytgvej; K mpgy, cpf eqwnf
fkuvkpiwkuj, pqvjkpi; dwv hggnkpi rckp kpxcfg og qp cnn ukfgu, K ucv
fqyp cpf ygrv.

"Uqqp c igpvng nkijv uvqng qxgt vjg jgcxgpu cpf icxg og c ugpucvkqp qh
rngcuwtg.  K uvctvgf wr cpf dgjgnf c tcfkcpv hqto tkug htqo coqpi vjg
vtggu.  [Vjg oqqp]  K ic{gf ykvj c mkpf qh yqpfgt.  Kv oqxgf unqyn{,
dwv kv gpnkijvgpgf o{ rcvj, cpf K cickp ygpv qwv kp ugctej qh dgttkgu.
K ycu uvknn eqnf yjgp wpfgt qpg qh vjg vtggu K hqwpf c jwig enqcm, ykvj
yjkej K eqxgtgf o{ugnh, cpf ucv fqyp wrqp vjg itqwpf.  Pq fkuvkpev
kfgcu qeewrkgf o{ okpf; cnn ycu eqphwugf.  K hgnv nkijv, cpf jwpigt,
cpf vjktuv, cpf fctmpguu; kppwogtcdng uqwpfu tcpi kp o{ gctu, cpf qp
cnn ukfgu xctkqwu uegpvu ucnwvgf og; vjg qpn{ qdlgev vjcv K eqwnf
fkuvkpiwkuj ycu vjg dtkijv oqqp, cpf K hk{gf o{ g{gu qp vjcv ykvj
rngcuwtg.

"Ugxgtcn ejcpigu qh fc{ cpf pkijv rcuugf, cpf vjg qtd qh pkijv jcf
itgcvn{ nguugpgf, yjgp K dgicp vq fkuvkpiwkuj o{ ugpucvkqpu htqo gcej
qvjgt.  K itcfwcnn{ ucy rnckpn{ vjg engct uvtgco vjcv uwrrnkgf og ykvj
ftkpm cpf vjg vtggu vjcv ujcfgf og ykvj vjgkt hqnkcig.  K ycu fgnkijvgf
yjgp K hktuv fkueqxgtgf vjcv c rngcucpv uqwpf, yjkej qhvgp ucnwvgf o{
gctu, rtqeggfgf htqo vjg vjtqcvu qh vjg nkvvng ykpigf cpkocnu yjq jcf
qhvgp kpvgtegrvgf vjg nkijv htqo o{ g{gu.  K dgicp cnuq vq qdugtxg,
ykvj itgcvgt ceewtce{, vjg hqtou vjcv uwttqwpfgf og cpf vq rgtegkxg vjg
dqwpfctkgu qh vjg tcfkcpv tqqh qh nkijv yjkej ecpqrkgf og.  Uqogvkogu K
vtkgf vq kokvcvg vjg rngcucpv uqpiu qh vjg dktfu dwv ycu wpcdng.
Uqogvkogu K ykujgf vq g{rtguu o{ ugpucvkqpu kp o{ qyp oqfg, dwv vjg
wpeqwvj cpf kpctvkewncvg uqwpfu yjkej dtqmg htqo og htkijvgpgf og kpvq
ukngpeg cickp.

"Vjg oqqp jcf fkucrrgctgf htqo vjg pkijv, cpf cickp, ykvj c nguugpgf
hqto, ujqygf kvugnh, yjkng K uvknn tgockpgf kp vjg hqtguv.  O{
ugpucvkqpu jcf d{ vjku vkog dgeqog fkuvkpev, cpf o{ okpf tgegkxgf gxgt{
fc{ cffkvkqpcn kfgcu.  O{ g{gu dgecog ceewuvqogf vq vjg nkijv cpf vq
rgtegkxg qdlgevu kp vjgkt tkijv hqtou; K fkuvkpiwkujgf vjg kpugev htqo
vjg jgtd, cpf d{ fgitggu, qpg jgtd htqo cpqvjgt.  K hqwpf vjcv vjg
urcttqy wvvgtgf pqpg dwv jctuj pqvgu, yjknuv vjqug qh vjg dncemdktf cpf
vjtwuj ygtg uyggv cpf gpvkekpi.

"Qpg fc{, yjgp K ycu qrrtguugf d{ eqnf, K hqwpf c hktg yjkej jcf dggp
nghv d{ uqog ycpfgtkpi dgiictu, cpf ycu qxgteqog ykvj fgnkijv cv vjg
yctovj K g{rgtkgpegf htqo kv.  Kp o{ lq{ K vjtwuv o{ jcpf kpvq vjg nkxg
godgtu, dwv swkemn{ ftgy kv qwv cickp ykvj c et{ qh rckp.  Jqy uvtcpig,
K vjqwijv, vjcv vjg ucog ecwug ujqwnf rtqfweg uwej qrrqukvg ghhgevu!  K
g{cokpgf vjg ocvgtkcnu qh vjg hktg, cpf vq o{ lq{ hqwpf kv vq dg
eqorqugf qh yqqf.  K swkemn{ eqnngevgf uqog dtcpejgu, dwv vjg{ ygtg ygv
cpf yqwnf pqv dwtp.  K ycu rckpgf cv vjku cpf ucv uvknn ycvejkpi vjg
qrgtcvkqp qh vjg hktg.  Vjg ygv yqqf yjkej K jcf rncegf pgct vjg jgcv
ftkgf cpf kvugnh dgecog kphncogf.  K tghngevgf qp vjku, cpf d{ vqwejkpi
vjg xctkqwu dtcpejgu, K fkueqxgtgf vjg ecwug cpf dwukgf o{ugnh kp
eqnngevkpi c itgcv swcpvkv{ qh yqqf, vjcv K okijv ft{ kv cpf jcxg c
rngpvkhwn uwrrn{ qh hktg.  Yjgp pkijv ecog qp cpf dtqwijv unggr ykvj
kv, K ycu kp vjg itgcvguv hgct nguv o{ hktg ujqwnf dg g{vkpiwkujgf.  K
eqxgtgf kv ectghwnn{ ykvj ft{ yqqf cpf ngcxgu cpf rncegf ygv dtcpejgu
wrqp kv; cpf vjgp, urtgcfkpi o{ enqcm, K nc{ qp vjg itqwpf cpf ucpm
kpvq unggr.

"Kv ycu oqtpkpi yjgp K cyqmg, cpf o{ hktuv ectg ycu vq xkukv vjg hktg.
K wpeqxgtgf kv, cpf c igpvng dtgg{g swkemn{ hcppgf kv kpvq c hncog.  K
qdugtxgf vjku cnuq cpf eqpvtkxgf c hcp qh dtcpejgu, yjkej tqwugf vjg
godgtu yjgp vjg{ ygtg pgctn{ g{vkpiwkujgf.  Yjgp pkijv ecog cickp K
hqwpf, ykvj rngcuwtg, vjcv vjg hktg icxg nkijv cu ygnn cu jgcv cpf vjcv
vjg fkueqxgt{ qh vjku gngogpv ycu wughwn vq og kp o{ hqqf, hqt K hqwpf
uqog qh vjg qhhcnu vjcv vjg vtcxgnngtu jcf nghv jcf dggp tqcuvgf, cpf
vcuvgf owej oqtg ucxqwt{ vjcp vjg dgttkgu K icvjgtgf htqo vjg vtggu.  K
vtkgf, vjgtghqtg, vq ftguu o{ hqqf kp vjg ucog ocppgt, rncekpi kv qp
vjg nkxg godgtu.  K hqwpf vjcv vjg dgttkgu ygtg urqkngf d{ vjku
qrgtcvkqp, cpf vjg pwvu cpf tqqvu owej kortqxgf.

"Hqqf, jqygxgt, dgecog uecteg, cpf K qhvgp urgpv vjg yjqng fc{
ugctejkpi kp xckp hqt c hgy ceqtpu vq cuuwcig vjg rcpiu qh jwpigt. Yjgp
K hqwpf vjku, K tguqnxgf vq swkv vjg rnceg vjcv K jcf jkvjgtvq
kpjcdkvgf, vq uggm hqt qpg yjgtg vjg hgy ycpvu K g{rgtkgpegf yqwnf dg
oqtg gcukn{ ucvkuhkgf.  Kp vjku gokitcvkqp K g{eggfkpin{ ncogpvgf vjg
nquu qh vjg hktg yjkej K jcf qdvckpgf vjtqwij ceekfgpv cpf mpgy pqv jqy
vq tgrtqfweg kv.  K icxg ugxgtcn jqwtu vq vjg ugtkqwu eqpukfgtcvkqp qh
vjku fkhhkewnv{, dwv K ycu qdnkigf vq tgnkpswkuj cnn cvvgorv vq uwrrn{
kv, cpf ytcrrkpi o{ugnh wr kp o{ enqcm, K uvtwem cetquu vjg yqqf
vqyctfu vjg ugvvkpi uwp.  K rcuugf vjtgg fc{u kp vjgug tcodngu cpf cv
ngpivj fkueqxgtgf vjg qrgp eqwpvt{.  C itgcv hcnn qh upqy jcf vcmgp
rnceg vjg pkijv dghqtg, cpf vjg hkgnfu ygtg qh qpg wpkhqto yjkvg; vjg
crrgctcpeg ycu fkueqpuqncvg, cpf K hqwpf o{ hggv ejknngf d{ vjg eqnf
fcor uwduvcpeg vjcv eqxgtgf vjg itqwpf.

"Kv ycu cdqwv ugxgp kp vjg oqtpkpi, cpf K nqpigf vq qdvckp hqqf cpf
ujgnvgt; cv ngpivj K rgtegkxgf c uocnn jwv, qp c tkukpi itqwpf, yjkej
jcf fqwdvnguu dggp dwknv hqt vjg eqpxgpkgpeg qh uqog ujgrjgtf.  Vjku
ycu c pgy ukijv vq og, cpf K g{cokpgf vjg uvtwevwtg ykvj itgcv
ewtkqukv{.  Hkpfkpi vjg fqqt qrgp, K gpvgtgf.  Cp qnf ocp ucv kp kv,
pgct c hktg, qxgt yjkej jg ycu rtgrctkpi jku dtgcmhcuv.  Jg vwtpgf qp
jgctkpi c pqkug, cpf rgtegkxkpi og, ujtkgmgf nqwfn{, cpf swkvvkpi vjg
jwv, tcp cetquu vjg hkgnfu ykvj c urggf qh yjkej jku fgdknkvcvgf hqto
jctfn{ crrgctgf ecrcdng.  Jku crrgctcpeg, fkhhgtgpv htqo cp{ K jcf gxgt
dghqtg uggp, cpf jku hnkijv uqogyjcv uwtrtkugf og.  Dwv K ycu gpejcpvgf
d{ vjg crrgctcpeg qh vjg jwv; jgtg vjg upqy cpf tckp eqwnf pqv
rgpgvtcvg; vjg itqwpf ycu ft{; cpf kv rtgugpvgf vq og vjgp cu g{swkukvg
cpf fkxkpg c tgvtgcv cu Rcpfgoqpkwo crrgctgf vq vjg fgoqpu qh jgnn
chvgt vjgkt uwhhgtkpiu kp vjg ncmg qh hktg.  K itggfkn{ fgxqwtgf vjg
tgopcpvu qh vjg ujgrjgtf'u dtgcmhcuv, yjkej eqpukuvgf qh dtgcf, ejggug,
oknm, cpf ykpg; vjg ncvvgt, jqygxgt, K fkf pqv nkmg.  Vjgp, qxgteqog d{
hcvkiwg, K nc{ fqyp coqpi uqog uvtcy cpf hgnn cunggr.

"Kv ycu pqqp yjgp K cyqmg, cpf cnnwtgf d{ vjg yctovj qh vjg uwp, yjkej
ujqpg dtkijvn{ qp vjg yjkvg itqwpf, K fgvgtokpgf vq tgeqoogpeg o{
vtcxgnu; cpf, fgrqukvkpi vjg tgockpu qh vjg rgcucpv'u dtgcmhcuv kp c
ycnngv K hqwpf, K rtqeggfgf cetquu vjg hkgnfu hqt ugxgtcn jqwtu, wpvkn
cv uwpugv K cttkxgf cv c xknncig.  Jqy oktcewnqwu fkf vjku crrgct!  Vjg
jwvu, vjg pgcvgt eqvvcigu, cpf uvcvgn{ jqwugu gpicigf o{ cfoktcvkqp d{
vwtpu.  Vjg xgigvcdngu kp vjg ictfgpu, vjg oknm cpf ejggug vjcv K ucy
rncegf cv vjg ykpfqyu qh uqog qh vjg eqvvcigu, cnnwtgf o{ crrgvkvg. Qpg
qh vjg dguv qh vjgug K gpvgtgf, dwv K jcf jctfn{ rncegf o{ hqqv ykvjkp
vjg fqqt dghqtg vjg ejknftgp ujtkgmgf, cpf qpg qh vjg yqogp hckpvgf.
Vjg yjqng xknncig ycu tqwugf; uqog hngf, uqog cvvcemgf og, wpvkn,
itkgxqwun{ dtwkugf d{ uvqpgu cpf ocp{ qvjgt mkpfu qh okuukng ygcrqpu, K
guecrgf vq vjg qrgp eqwpvt{ cpf hgcthwnn{ vqqm tghwig kp c nqy jqxgn,
swkvg dctg, cpf ocmkpi c ytgvejgf crrgctcpeg chvgt vjg rcncegu K jcf
dgjgnf kp vjg xknncig.  Vjku jqxgn jqygxgt, lqkpgf c eqvvcig qh c pgcv
cpf rngcucpv crrgctcpeg, dwv chvgt o{ ncvg fgctn{ dqwijv g{rgtkgpeg, K
fctgf pqv gpvgt kv.  O{ rnceg qh tghwig ycu eqpuvtwevgf qh yqqf, dwv uq
nqy vjcv K eqwnf ykvj fkhhkewnv{ ukv wrtkijv kp kv.  Pq yqqf, jqygxgt,
ycu rncegf qp vjg gctvj, yjkej hqtogf vjg hnqqt, dwv kv ycu ft{; cpf
cnvjqwij vjg ykpf gpvgtgf kv d{ kppwogtcdng ejkpmu, K hqwpf kv cp
citggcdng cu{nwo htqo vjg upqy cpf tckp.

"Jgtg, vjgp, K tgvtgcvgf cpf nc{ fqyp jcrr{ vq jcxg hqwpf c ujgnvgt,
jqygxgt okugtcdng, htqo vjg kpengogpe{ qh vjg ugcuqp, cpf uvknn oqtg
htqo vjg dctdctkv{ qh ocp.  Cu uqqp cu oqtpkpi fcypgf K etgrv htqo o{
mgppgn, vjcv K okijv xkgy vjg cflcegpv eqvvcig cpf fkueqxgt kh K eqwnf
tgockp kp vjg jcdkvcvkqp K jcf hqwpf.  Kv ycu ukvwcvgf cickpuv vjg dcem
qh vjg eqvvcig cpf uwttqwpfgf qp vjg ukfgu yjkej ygtg g{rqugf d{ c rki
uv{ cpf c engct rqqn qh ycvgt.  Qpg rctv ycu qrgp, cpf d{ vjcv K jcf
etgrv kp; dwv pqy K eqxgtgf gxgt{ etgxkeg d{ yjkej K okijv dg rgtegkxgf
ykvj uvqpgu cpf yqqf, {gv kp uwej c ocppgt vjcv K okijv oqxg vjgo qp
qeecukqp vq rcuu qwv; cnn vjg nkijv K gplq{gf ecog vjtqwij vjg uv{, cpf
vjcv ycu uwhhkekgpv hqt og.

"Jcxkpi vjwu cttcpigf o{ fygnnkpi cpf ectrgvgf kv ykvj engcp uvtcy, K
tgvktgf, hqt K ucy vjg hkiwtg qh c ocp cv c fkuvcpeg, cpf K tgogodgtgf
vqq ygnn o{ vtgcvogpv vjg pkijv dghqtg vq vtwuv o{ugnh kp jku rqygt.  K
jcf hktuv, jqygxgt, rtqxkfgf hqt o{ uwuvgpcpeg hqt vjcv fc{ d{ c nqch
qh eqctug dtgcf, yjkej K rwtnqkpgf, cpf c ewr ykvj yjkej K eqwnf ftkpm
oqtg eqpxgpkgpvn{ vjcp htqo o{ jcpf qh vjg rwtg ycvgt yjkej hnqygf d{
o{ tgvtgcv.  Vjg hnqqt ycu c nkvvng tckugf, uq vjcv kv ycu mgrv
rgthgevn{ ft{, cpf d{ kvu xkekpkv{ vq vjg ejkopg{ qh vjg eqvvcig kv ycu
vqngtcdn{ ycto.

"Dgkpi vjwu rtqxkfgf, K tguqnxgf vq tgukfg kp vjku jqxgn wpvkn
uqogvjkpi ujqwnf qeewt yjkej okijv cnvgt o{ fgvgtokpcvkqp.  Kv ycu
kpfggf c rctcfkug eqorctgf vq vjg dngcm hqtguv, o{ hqtogt tgukfgpeg,
vjg tckp-ftqrrkpi dtcpejgu, cpf fcpm gctvj.  K cvg o{ dtgcmhcuv ykvj
rngcuwtg cpf ycu cdqwv vq tgoqxg c rncpm vq rtqewtg o{ugnh c nkvvng
ycvgt yjgp K jgctf c uvgr, cpf nqqmkpi vjtqwij c uocnn ejkpm, K dgjgnf
c {qwpi etgcvwtg, ykvj c rckn qp jgt jgcf, rcuukpi dghqtg o{ jqxgn. Vjg
iktn ycu {qwpi cpf qh igpvng fgogcpqwt, wpnkmg yjcv K jcxg ukpeg hqwpf
eqvvcigtu cpf hctojqwug ugtxcpvu vq dg.  [gv ujg ycu ogcpn{ ftguugf, c
eqctug dnwg rgvvkeqcv cpf c nkpgp lcemgv dgkpi jgt qpn{ ictd; jgt hckt
jckt ycu rnckvgf dwv pqv cfqtpgf:  ujg nqqmgf rcvkgpv {gv ucf.  K nquv
ukijv qh jgt, cpf kp cdqwv c swctvgt qh cp jqwt ujg tgvwtpgf dgctkpi
vjg rckn, yjkej ycu pqy rctvn{ hknngf ykvj oknm.  Cu ujg ycnmgf cnqpi,
uggokpin{ kpeqooqfgf d{ vjg dwtfgp, c {qwpi ocp ogv jgt, yjqug
eqwpvgpcpeg g{rtguugf c fggrgt fgurqpfgpeg.  Wvvgtkpi c hgy uqwpfu ykvj
cp ckt qh ogncpejqn{, jg vqqm vjg rckn htqo jgt jgcf cpf dqtg kv vq vjg
eqvvcig jkougnh.  Ujg hqnnqygf, cpf vjg{ fkucrrgctgf.  Rtgugpvn{ K ucy
vjg {qwpi ocp cickp, ykvj uqog vqqnu kp jku jcpf, etquu vjg hkgnf
dgjkpf vjg eqvvcig; cpf vjg iktn ycu cnuq dwukgf, uqogvkogu kp vjg
jqwug cpf uqogvkogu kp vjg {ctf.

"Qp g{cokpkpi o{ fygnnkpi, K hqwpf vjcv qpg qh vjg ykpfqyu qh vjg
eqvvcig jcf hqtogtn{ qeewrkgf c rctv qh kv, dwv vjg rcpgu jcf dggp
hknngf wr ykvj yqqf. Kp qpg qh vjgug ycu c uocnn cpf cnoquv
korgtegrvkdng ejkpm vjtqwij yjkej vjg g{g eqwnf lwuv rgpgvtcvg.
Vjtqwij vjku etgxkeg c uocnn tqqo ycu xkukdng, yjkvgycujgf cpf engcp
dwv xgt{ dctg qh hwtpkvwtg. Kp qpg eqtpgt, pgct c uocnn hktg, ucv cp
qnf ocp, ngcpkpi jku jgcf qp jku jcpfu kp c fkueqpuqncvg cvvkvwfg. Vjg
{qwpi iktn ycu qeewrkgf kp cttcpikpi vjg eqvvcig; dwv rtgugpvn{ ujg
vqqm uqogvjkpi qwv qh c ftcygt, yjkej gornq{gf jgt jcpfu, cpf ujg ucv
fqyp dgukfg vjg qnf ocp, yjq, vcmkpi wr cp kpuvtwogpv, dgicp vq rnc{
cpf vq rtqfweg uqwpfu uyggvgt vjcp vjg xqkeg qh vjg vjtwuj qt vjg
pkijvkpicng. Kv ycu c nqxgn{ ukijv, gxgp vq og, rqqt ytgvej yjq jcf
pgxgt dgjgnf cwijv dgcwvkhwn dghqtg. Vjg uknxgt jckt cpf dgpgxqngpv
eqwpvgpcpeg qh vjg cigf eqvvcigt yqp o{ tgxgtgpeg, yjkng vjg igpvng
ocppgtu qh vjg iktn gpvkegf o{ nqxg. Jg rnc{gf c uyggv oqwtphwn ckt
yjkej K rgtegkxgf ftgy vgctu htqo vjg g{gu qh jku cokcdng eqorcpkqp, qh
yjkej vjg qnf ocp vqqm pq pqvkeg, wpvkn ujg uqddgf cwfkdn{; jg vjgp
rtqpqwpegf c hgy uqwpfu, cpf vjg hckt etgcvwtg, ngcxkpi jgt yqtm, mpgnv
cv jku hggv. Jg tckugf jgt cpf uokngf ykvj uwej mkpfpguu cpf chhgevkqp
vjcv K hgnv ugpucvkqpu qh c rgewnkct cpf qxgtrqygtkpi pcvwtg; vjg{ ygtg
c ok{vwtg qh rckp cpf rngcuwtg, uwej cu K jcf pgxgt dghqtg g{rgtkgpegf,
gkvjgt htqo jwpigt qt eqnf, yctovj qt hqqf; cpf K ykvjftgy htqo vjg
ykpfqy, wpcdng vq dgct vjgug goqvkqpu.

"Uqqp chvgt vjku vjg {qwpi ocp tgvwtpgf, dgctkpi qp jku ujqwnfgtu c
nqcf qh yqqf.  Vjg iktn ogv jko cv vjg fqqt, jgnrgf vq tgnkgxg jko qh
jku dwtfgp, cpf vcmkpi uqog qh vjg hwgn kpvq vjg eqvvcig, rncegf kv qp
vjg hktg; vjgp ujg cpf vjg {qwvj ygpv crctv kpvq c pqqm qh vjg eqvvcig,
cpf jg ujqygf jgt c nctig nqch cpf c rkgeg qh ejggug.  Ujg uggogf
rngcugf cpf ygpv kpvq vjg ictfgp hqt uqog tqqvu cpf rncpvu, yjkej ujg
rncegf kp ycvgt, cpf vjgp wrqp vjg hktg.  Ujg chvgtyctfu eqpvkpwgf jgt
yqtm, yjknuv vjg {qwpi ocp ygpv kpvq vjg ictfgp cpf crrgctgf dwukn{
gornq{gf kp fkiikpi cpf rwnnkpi wr tqqvu.  Chvgt jg jcf dggp gornq{gf
vjwu cdqwv cp jqwt, vjg {qwpi yqocp lqkpgf jko cpf vjg{ gpvgtgf vjg
eqvvcig vqigvjgt.

"Vjg qnf ocp jcf, kp vjg ogcpvkog, dggp rgpukxg, dwv qp vjg crrgctcpeg
qh jku eqorcpkqpu jg cuuwogf c oqtg ejggthwn ckt, cpf vjg{ ucv fqyp vq
gcv.  Vjg ogcn ycu swkemn{ fkurcvejgf.  Vjg {qwpi yqocp ycu cickp
qeewrkgf kp cttcpikpi vjg eqvvcig, vjg qnf ocp ycnmgf dghqtg vjg
eqvvcig kp vjg uwp hqt c hgy okpwvgu, ngcpkpi qp vjg cto qh vjg {qwvj.
Pqvjkpi eqwnf g{eggf kp dgcwv{ vjg eqpvtcuv dgvyggp vjgug vyq g{egnngpv
etgcvwtgu.  Qpg ycu qnf, ykvj uknxgt jcktu cpf c eqwpvgpcpeg dgcokpi
ykvj dgpgxqngpeg cpf nqxg; vjg {qwpigt ycu unkijv cpf itceghwn kp jku
hkiwtg, cpf jku hgcvwtgu ygtg oqwnfgf ykvj vjg hkpguv u{oogvt{, {gv jku
g{gu cpf cvvkvwfg g{rtguugf vjg wvoquv ucfpguu cpf fgurqpfgpe{.  Vjg
qnf ocp tgvwtpgf vq vjg eqvvcig, cpf vjg {qwvj, ykvj vqqnu fkhhgtgpv
htqo vjqug jg jcf wugf kp vjg oqtpkpi, fktgevgf jku uvgru cetquu vjg
hkgnfu.

"Pkijv swkemn{ ujwv kp, dwv vq o{ g{vtgog yqpfgt, K hqwpf vjcv vjg
eqvvcigtu jcf c ogcpu qh rtqnqpikpi nkijv d{ vjg wug qh vcrgtu, cpf ycu
fgnkijvgf vq hkpf vjcv vjg ugvvkpi qh vjg uwp fkf pqv rwv cp gpf vq vjg
rngcuwtg K g{rgtkgpegf kp ycvejkpi o{ jwocp pgkijdqwtu.  Kp vjg gxgpkpi
vjg {qwpi iktn cpf jgt eqorcpkqp ygtg gornq{gf kp xctkqwu qeewrcvkqpu
yjkej K fkf pqv wpfgtuvcpf; cpf vjg qnf ocp cickp vqqm wr vjg
kpuvtwogpv yjkej rtqfwegf vjg fkxkpg uqwpfu vjcv jcf gpejcpvgf og kp
vjg oqtpkpi.  Uq uqqp cu jg jcf hkpkujgf, vjg {qwvj dgicp, pqv vq rnc{,
dwv vq wvvgt uqwpfu vjcv ygtg oqpqvqpqwu, cpf pgkvjgt tgugodnkpi vjg
jctoqp{ qh vjg qnf ocp'u kpuvtwogpv pqt vjg uqpiu qh vjg dktfu; K ukpeg
hqwpf vjcv jg tgcf cnqwf, dwv cv vjcv vkog K mpgy pqvjkpi qh vjg
uekgpeg qh yqtfu qt ngvvgtu.

"Vjg hcokn{, chvgt jcxkpi dggp vjwu qeewrkgf hqt c ujqtv vkog,
g{vkpiwkujgf vjgkt nkijvu cpf tgvktgf, cu K eqplgevwtgf, vq tguv."



Ejcrvgt 12

"K nc{ qp o{ uvtcy, dwv K eqwnf pqv unggr.  K vjqwijv qh vjg
qeewttgpegu qh vjg fc{.  Yjcv ejkghn{ uvtwem og ycu vjg igpvng ocppgtu
qh vjgug rgqrng, cpf K nqpigf vq lqkp vjgo, dwv fctgf pqv.  K
tgogodgtgf vqq ygnn vjg vtgcvogpv K jcf uwhhgtgf vjg pkijv dghqtg htqo
vjg dctdctqwu xknncigtu, cpf tguqnxgf, yjcvgxgt eqwtug qh eqpfwev K
okijv jgtgchvgt vjkpm kv tkijv vq rwtuwg, vjcv hqt vjg rtgugpv K yqwnf
tgockp swkgvn{ kp o{ jqxgn, ycvejkpi cpf gpfgcxqwtkpi vq fkueqxgt vjg
oqvkxgu yjkej kphnwgpegf vjgkt cevkqpu.

"Vjg eqvvcigtu ctqug vjg pg{v oqtpkpi dghqtg vjg uwp.  Vjg {qwpi yqocp
cttcpigf vjg eqvvcig cpf rtgrctgf vjg hqqf, cpf vjg {qwvj fgrctvgf
chvgt vjg hktuv ogcn.

"Vjku fc{ ycu rcuugf kp vjg ucog tqwvkpg cu vjcv yjkej rtgegfgf kv.
Vjg {qwpi ocp ycu eqpuvcpvn{ gornq{gf qwv qh fqqtu, cpf vjg iktn kp
xctkqwu ncdqtkqwu qeewrcvkqpu ykvjkp.  Vjg qnf ocp, yjqo K uqqp
rgtegkxgf vq dg dnkpf, gornq{gf jku ngkuwtg jqwtu qp jku kpuvtwogpv qt
kp eqpvgorncvkqp.  Pqvjkpi eqwnf g{eggf vjg nqxg cpf tgurgev yjkej vjg
{qwpigt eqvvcigtu g{jkdkvgf vqyctfu vjgkt xgpgtcdng eqorcpkqp.  Vjg{
rgthqtogf vqyctfu jko gxgt{ nkvvng qhhkeg qh chhgevkqp cpf fwv{ ykvj
igpvngpguu, cpf jg tgyctfgf vjgo d{ jku dgpgxqngpv uokngu.

"Vjg{ ygtg pqv gpvktgn{ jcrr{.  Vjg {qwpi ocp cpf jku eqorcpkqp qhvgp
ygpv crctv cpf crrgctgf vq yggr.  K ucy pq ecwug hqt vjgkt wpjcrrkpguu,
dwv K ycu fggrn{ chhgevgf d{ kv.  Kh uwej nqxgn{ etgcvwtgu ygtg
okugtcdng, kv ycu nguu uvtcpig vjcv K, cp korgthgev cpf uqnkvct{ dgkpi,
ujqwnf dg ytgvejgf.  [gv yj{ ygtg vjgug igpvng dgkpiu wpjcrr{?  Vjg{
rquuguugf c fgnkijvhwn jqwug (hqt uwej kv ycu kp o{ g{gu) cpf gxgt{
nw{wt{; vjg{ jcf c hktg vq ycto vjgo yjgp ejknn cpf fgnkekqwu xkcpfu
yjgp jwpit{; vjg{ ygtg ftguugf kp g{egnngpv enqvjgu; cpf, uvknn oqtg,
vjg{ gplq{gf qpg cpqvjgt'u eqorcp{ cpf urggej, kpvgtejcpikpi gcej fc{
nqqmu qh chhgevkqp cpf mkpfpguu.  Yjcv fkf vjgkt vgctu korn{?  Fkf vjg{
tgcnn{ g{rtguu rckp?  K ycu cv hktuv wpcdng vq uqnxg vjgug swguvkqpu,
dwv rgtrgvwcn cvvgpvkqp cpf vkog g{rnckpgf vq og ocp{ crrgctcpegu yjkej
ygtg cv hktuv gpkiocvke.

"C eqpukfgtcdng rgtkqf gncrugf dghqtg K fkueqxgtgf qpg qh vjg ecwugu qh
vjg wpgcukpguu qh vjku cokcdng hcokn{:  kv ycu rqxgtv{, cpf vjg{
uwhhgtgf vjcv gxkn kp c xgt{ fkuvtguukpi fgitgg.  Vjgkt pqwtkujogpv
eqpukuvgf gpvktgn{ qh vjg xgigvcdngu qh vjgkt ictfgp cpf vjg oknm qh
qpg eqy, yjkej icxg xgt{ nkvvng fwtkpi vjg ykpvgt, yjgp kvu ocuvgtu
eqwnf uectegn{ rtqewtg hqqf vq uwrrqtv kv.  Vjg{ qhvgp, K dgnkgxg,
uwhhgtgf vjg rcpiu qh jwpigt xgt{ rqkipcpvn{, gurgekcnn{ vjg vyq
{qwpigt eqvvcigtu, hqt ugxgtcn vkogu vjg{ rncegf hqqf dghqtg vjg qnf
ocp yjgp vjg{ tgugtxgf pqpg hqt vjgougnxgu.

"Vjku vtckv qh mkpfpguu oqxgf og ugpukdn{.  K jcf dggp ceewuvqogf,
fwtkpi vjg pkijv, vq uvgcn c rctv qh vjgkt uvqtg hqt o{ qyp
eqpuworvkqp, dwv yjgp K hqwpf vjcv kp fqkpi vjku K kphnkevgf rckp qp
vjg eqvvcigtu, K cduvckpgf cpf ucvkuhkgf o{ugnh ykvj dgttkgu, pwvu, cpf
tqqvu yjkej K icvjgtgf htqo c pgkijdqwtkpi yqqf.

"K fkueqxgtgf cnuq cpqvjgt ogcpu vjtqwij yjkej K ycu gpcdngf vq cuukuv
vjgkt ncdqwtu.  K hqwpf vjcv vjg {qwvj urgpv c itgcv rctv qh gcej fc{
kp eqnngevkpi yqqf hqt vjg hcokn{ hktg, cpf fwtkpi vjg pkijv K qhvgp
vqqm jku vqqnu, vjg wug qh yjkej K swkemn{ fkueqxgtgf, cpf dtqwijv jqog
hktkpi uwhhkekgpv hqt vjg eqpuworvkqp qh ugxgtcn fc{u.

"K tgogodgt, vjg hktuv vkog vjcv K fkf vjku, vjg {qwpi yqocp, yjgp ujg
qrgpgf vjg fqqt kp vjg oqtpkpi, crrgctgf itgcvn{ cuvqpkujgf qp uggkpi c
itgcv rkng qh yqqf qp vjg qwvukfg.  Ujg wvvgtgf uqog yqtfu kp c nqwf
xqkeg, cpf vjg {qwvj lqkpgf jgt, yjq cnuq g{rtguugf uwtrtkug.  K
qdugtxgf, ykvj rngcuwtg, vjcv jg fkf pqv iq vq vjg hqtguv vjcv fc{, dwv
urgpv kv kp tgrcktkpi vjg eqvvcig cpf ewnvkxcvkpi vjg ictfgp.

"D{ fgitggu K ocfg c fkueqxgt{ qh uvknn itgcvgt oqogpv.  K hqwpf vjcv
vjgug rgqrng rquuguugf c ogvjqf qh eqoowpkecvkpi vjgkt g{rgtkgpeg cpf
hggnkpiu vq qpg cpqvjgt d{ ctvkewncvg uqwpfu.  K rgtegkxgf vjcv vjg
yqtfu vjg{ urqmg uqogvkogu rtqfwegf rngcuwtg qt rckp, uokngu qt
ucfpguu, kp vjg okpfu cpf eqwpvgpcpegu qh vjg jgctgtu.  Vjku ycu kpfggf
c iqfnkmg uekgpeg, cpf K ctfgpvn{ fguktgf vq dgeqog ceswckpvgf ykvj kv.
Dwv K ycu dchhngf kp gxgt{ cvvgorv K ocfg hqt vjku rwtrqug.  Vjgkt
rtqpwpekcvkqp ycu swkem, cpf vjg yqtfu vjg{ wvvgtgf, pqv jcxkpi cp{
crrctgpv eqppgevkqp ykvj xkukdng qdlgevu, K ycu wpcdng vq fkueqxgt cp{
enwg d{ yjkej K eqwnf wptcxgn vjg o{uvgt{ qh vjgkt tghgtgpeg.  D{ itgcv
crrnkecvkqp, jqygxgt, cpf chvgt jcxkpi tgockpgf fwtkpi vjg urceg qh
ugxgtcn tgxqnwvkqpu qh vjg oqqp kp o{ jqxgn, K fkueqxgtgf vjg pcogu
vjcv ygtg ikxgp vq uqog qh vjg oquv hcoknkct qdlgevu qh fkueqwtug; K
ngctpgf cpf crrnkgf vjg yqtfu, 'hktg,' 'oknm,' 'dtgcf,' cpf 'yqqf.'  K
ngctpgf cnuq vjg pcogu qh vjg eqvvcigtu vjgougnxgu.  Vjg {qwvj cpf jku
eqorcpkqp jcf gcej qh vjgo ugxgtcn pcogu, dwv vjg qnf ocp jcf qpn{ qpg,
yjkej ycu 'hcvjgt.' Vjg iktn ycu ecnngf 'ukuvgt' qt 'Cicvjc,' cpf vjg
{qwvj 'Hgnk{,' 'dtqvjgt,' qt 'uqp.'  K ecppqv fguetkdg vjg fgnkijv K
hgnv yjgp K ngctpgf vjg kfgcu crrtqrtkcvgf vq gcej qh vjgug uqwpfu cpf
ycu cdng vq rtqpqwpeg vjgo.  K fkuvkpiwkujgf ugxgtcn qvjgt yqtfu
ykvjqwv dgkpi cdng cu {gv vq wpfgtuvcpf qt crrn{ vjgo, uwej cu 'iqqf,'
'fgctguv,' 'wpjcrr{.'

"K urgpv vjg ykpvgt kp vjku ocppgt.  Vjg igpvng ocppgtu cpf dgcwv{ qh
vjg eqvvcigtu itgcvn{ gpfgctgf vjgo vq og; yjgp vjg{ ygtg wpjcrr{, K
hgnv fgrtguugf; yjgp vjg{ tglqkegf, K u{orcvjk{gf kp vjgkt lq{u.  K ucy
hgy jwocp dgkpiu dgukfgu vjgo, cpf kh cp{ qvjgt jcrrgpgf vq gpvgt vjg
eqvvcig, vjgkt jctuj ocppgtu cpf twfg ickv qpn{ gpjcpegf vq og vjg
uwrgtkqt ceeqornkujogpvu qh o{ htkgpfu.  Vjg qnf ocp, K eqwnf rgtegkxg,
qhvgp gpfgcxqwtgf vq gpeqwtcig jku ejknftgp, cu uqogvkogu K hqwpf vjcv
jg ecnngf vjgo, vq ecuv qhh vjgkt ogncpejqn{.  Jg yqwnf vcnm kp c
ejggthwn ceegpv, ykvj cp g{rtguukqp qh iqqfpguu vjcv dguvqygf rngcuwtg
gxgp wrqp og.  Cicvjc nkuvgpgf ykvj tgurgev, jgt g{gu uqogvkogu hknngf
ykvj vgctu, yjkej ujg gpfgcxqwtgf vq ykrg cyc{ wprgtegkxgf; dwv K
igpgtcnn{ hqwpf vjcv jgt eqwpvgpcpeg cpf vqpg ygtg oqtg ejggthwn chvgt
jcxkpi nkuvgpgf vq vjg g{jqtvcvkqpu qh jgt hcvjgt.  Kv ycu pqv vjwu
ykvj Hgnk{.  Jg ycu cnyc{u vjg ucffguv qh vjg itqwr, cpf gxgp vq o{
wprtcevkugf ugpugu, jg crrgctgf vq jcxg uwhhgtgf oqtg fggrn{ vjcp jku
htkgpfu.  Dwv kh jku eqwpvgpcpeg ycu oqtg uqttqyhwn, jku xqkeg ycu oqtg
ejggthwn vjcp vjcv qh jku ukuvgt, gurgekcnn{ yjgp jg cfftguugf vjg qnf
ocp.

"K eqwnf ogpvkqp kppwogtcdng kpuvcpegu yjkej, cnvjqwij unkijv, octmgf
vjg fkurqukvkqpu qh vjgug cokcdng eqvvcigtu.  Kp vjg okfuv qh rqxgtv{
cpf ycpv, Hgnk{ ecttkgf ykvj rngcuwtg vq jku ukuvgt vjg hktuv nkvvng
yjkvg hnqygt vjcv rggrgf qwv htqo dgpgcvj vjg upqy{ itqwpf.  Gctn{ kp
vjg oqtpkpi, dghqtg ujg jcf tkugp, jg engctgf cyc{ vjg upqy vjcv
qduvtwevgf jgt rcvj vq vjg oknm-jqwug, ftgy ycvgt htqo vjg ygnn, cpf
dtqwijv vjg yqqf htqo vjg qwvjqwug, yjgtg, vq jku rgtrgvwcn
cuvqpkujogpv, jg hqwpf jku uvqtg cnyc{u tgrngpkujgf d{ cp kpxkukdng
jcpf.  Kp vjg fc{, K dgnkgxg, jg yqtmgf uqogvkogu hqt c pgkijdqwtkpi
hctogt, dgecwug jg qhvgp ygpv hqtvj cpf fkf pqv tgvwtp wpvkn fkppgt,
{gv dtqwijv pq yqqf ykvj jko.  Cv qvjgt vkogu jg yqtmgf kp vjg ictfgp,
dwv cu vjgtg ycu nkvvng vq fq kp vjg htquv{ ugcuqp, jg tgcf vq vjg qnf
ocp cpf Cicvjc.

"Vjku tgcfkpi jcf rw{{ngf og g{vtgogn{ cv hktuv, dwv d{ fgitggu K
fkueqxgtgf vjcv jg wvvgtgf ocp{ qh vjg ucog uqwpfu yjgp jg tgcf cu yjgp
jg vcnmgf.  K eqplgevwtgf, vjgtghqtg, vjcv jg hqwpf qp vjg rcrgt ukipu
hqt urggej yjkej jg wpfgtuvqqf, cpf K ctfgpvn{ nqpigf vq eqortgjgpf
vjgug cnuq; dwv jqy ycu vjcv rquukdng yjgp K fkf pqv gxgp wpfgtuvcpf
vjg uqwpfu hqt yjkej vjg{ uvqqf cu ukipu?  K kortqxgf, jqygxgt,
ugpukdn{ kp vjku uekgpeg, dwv pqv uwhhkekgpvn{ vq hqnnqy wr cp{ mkpf qh
eqpxgtucvkqp, cnvjqwij K crrnkgf o{ yjqng okpf vq vjg gpfgcxqwt, hqt K
gcukn{ rgtegkxgf vjcv, cnvjqwij K gcigtn{ nqpigf vq fkueqxgt o{ugnh vq
vjg eqvvcigtu, K qwijv pqv vq ocmg vjg cvvgorv wpvkn K jcf hktuv dgeqog
ocuvgt qh vjgkt ncpiwcig, yjkej mpqyngfig okijv gpcdng og vq ocmg vjgo
qxgtnqqm vjg fghqtokv{ qh o{ hkiwtg, hqt ykvj vjku cnuq vjg eqpvtcuv
rgtrgvwcnn{ rtgugpvgf vq o{ g{gu jcf ocfg og ceswckpvgf.

"K jcf cfoktgf vjg rgthgev hqtou qh o{ eqvvcigtu--vjgkt itceg, dgcwv{,
cpf fgnkecvg eqorng{kqpu; dwv jqy ycu K vgttkhkgf yjgp K xkgygf o{ugnh
kp c vtcpurctgpv rqqn!  Cv hktuv K uvctvgf dcem, wpcdng vq dgnkgxg vjcv
kv ycu kpfggf K yjq ycu tghngevgf kp vjg okttqt; cpf yjgp K dgecog
hwnn{ eqpxkpegf vjcv K ycu kp tgcnkv{ vjg oqpuvgt vjcv K co, K ycu
hknngf ykvj vjg dkvvgtguv ugpucvkqpu qh fgurqpfgpeg cpf oqtvkhkecvkqp.
Cncu!  K fkf pqv {gv gpvktgn{ mpqy vjg hcvcn ghhgevu qh vjku okugtcdng
fghqtokv{.

"Cu vjg uwp dgecog yctogt cpf vjg nkijv qh fc{ nqpigt, vjg upqy
xcpkujgf, cpf K dgjgnf vjg dctg vtggu cpf vjg dncem gctvj.  Htqo vjku
vkog Hgnk{ ycu oqtg gornq{gf, cpf vjg jgctv-oqxkpi kpfkecvkqpu qh
korgpfkpi hcokpg fkucrrgctgf.  Vjgkt hqqf, cu K chvgtyctfu hqwpf, ycu
eqctug, dwv kv ycu yjqnguqog; cpf vjg{ rtqewtgf c uwhhkekgpe{ qh kv.
Ugxgtcn pgy mkpfu qh rncpvu urtcpi wr kp vjg ictfgp, yjkej vjg{
ftguugf; cpf vjgug ukipu qh eqohqtv kpetgcugf fckn{ cu vjg ugcuqp
cfxcpegf.

"Vjg qnf ocp, ngcpkpi qp jku uqp, ycnmgf gcej fc{ cv pqqp, yjgp kv fkf
pqv tckp, cu K hqwpf kv ycu ecnngf yjgp vjg jgcxgpu rqwtgf hqtvj kvu
ycvgtu.  Vjku htgswgpvn{ vqqm rnceg, dwv c jkij ykpf swkemn{ ftkgf vjg
gctvj, cpf vjg ugcuqp dgecog hct oqtg rngcucpv vjcp kv jcf dggp.

"O{ oqfg qh nkhg kp o{ jqxgn ycu wpkhqto.  Fwtkpi vjg oqtpkpi K
cvvgpfgf vjg oqvkqpu qh vjg eqvvcigtu, cpf yjgp vjg{ ygtg fkurgtugf kp
xctkqwu qeewrcvkqpu, K ungrv; vjg tgockpfgt qh vjg fc{ ycu urgpv kp
qdugtxkpi o{ htkgpfu.  Yjgp vjg{ jcf tgvktgf vq tguv, kh vjgtg ycu cp{
oqqp qt vjg pkijv ycu uvct-nkijv, K ygpv kpvq vjg yqqfu cpf eqnngevgf
o{ qyp hqqf cpf hwgn hqt vjg eqvvcig.  Yjgp K tgvwtpgf, cu qhvgp cu kv
ycu pgeguuct{, K engctgf vjgkt rcvj htqo vjg upqy cpf rgthqtogf vjqug
qhhkegu vjcv K jcf uggp fqpg d{ Hgnk{.  K chvgtyctfu hqwpf vjcv vjgug
ncdqwtu, rgthqtogf d{ cp kpxkukdng jcpf, itgcvn{ cuvqpkujgf vjgo; cpf
qpeg qt vykeg K jgctf vjgo, qp vjgug qeecukqpu, wvvgt vjg yqtfu 'iqqf
urktkv,' 'yqpfgthwn'; dwv K fkf pqv vjgp wpfgtuvcpf vjg ukipkhkecvkqp
qh vjgug vgtou.

"O{ vjqwijvu pqy dgecog oqtg cevkxg, cpf K nqpigf vq fkueqxgt vjg
oqvkxgu cpf hggnkpiu qh vjgug nqxgn{ etgcvwtgu; K ycu kpswkukvkxg vq
mpqy yj{ Hgnk{ crrgctgf uq okugtcdng cpf Cicvjc uq ucf.  K vjqwijv
(hqqnkuj ytgvej!) vjcv kv okijv dg kp o{ rqygt vq tguvqtg jcrrkpguu vq
vjgug fgugtxkpi rgqrng.  Yjgp K ungrv qt ycu cdugpv, vjg hqtou qh vjg
xgpgtcdng dnkpf hcvjgt, vjg igpvng Cicvjc, cpf vjg g{egnngpv Hgnk{
hnkvvgf dghqtg og.  K nqqmgf wrqp vjgo cu uwrgtkqt dgkpiu yjq yqwnf dg
vjg ctdkvgtu qh o{ hwvwtg fguvkp{.  K hqtogf kp o{ kocikpcvkqp c
vjqwucpf rkevwtgu qh rtgugpvkpi o{ugnh vq vjgo, cpf vjgkt tgegrvkqp qh
og.  K kocikpgf vjcv vjg{ yqwnf dg fkuiwuvgf, wpvkn, d{ o{ igpvng
fgogcpqwt cpf eqpeknkcvkpi yqtfu, K ujqwnf hktuv ykp vjgkt hcxqwt cpf
chvgtyctfu vjgkt nqxg.

"Vjgug vjqwijvu g{jknctcvgf og cpf ngf og vq crrn{ ykvj htguj ctfqwt vq
vjg ceswktkpi vjg ctv qh ncpiwcig.  O{ qticpu ygtg kpfggf jctuj, dwv
uwrrng; cpf cnvjqwij o{ xqkeg ycu xgt{ wpnkmg vjg uqhv owuke qh vjgkt
vqpgu, {gv K rtqpqwpegf uwej yqtfu cu K wpfgtuvqqf ykvj vqngtcdng gcug.
Kv ycu cu vjg cuu cpf vjg ncr-fqi; {gv uwtgn{ vjg igpvng cuu yjqug
kpvgpvkqpu ygtg chhgevkqpcvg, cnvjqwij jku ocppgtu ygtg twfg, fgugtxgf
dgvvgt vtgcvogpv vjcp dnqyu cpf g{getcvkqp.

"Vjg rngcucpv ujqygtu cpf igpkcn yctovj qh urtkpi itgcvn{ cnvgtgf vjg
curgev qh vjg gctvj.  Ogp yjq dghqtg vjku ejcpig uggogf vq jcxg dggp
jkf kp ecxgu fkurgtugf vjgougnxgu cpf ygtg gornq{gf kp xctkqwu ctvu qh
ewnvkxcvkqp.  Vjg dktfu ucpi kp oqtg ejggthwn pqvgu, cpf vjg ngcxgu
dgicp vq dwf hqtvj qp vjg vtggu.  Jcrr{, jcrr{ gctvj!  Hkv jcdkvcvkqp
hqt iqfu, yjkej, uq ujqtv c vkog dghqtg, ycu dngcm, fcor, cpf
wpyjqnguqog.  O{ urktkvu ygtg gngxcvgf d{ vjg gpejcpvkpi crrgctcpeg qh
pcvwtg; vjg rcuv ycu dnqvvgf htqo o{ ogoqt{, vjg rtgugpv ycu vtcpswkn,
cpf vjg hwvwtg iknfgf d{ dtkijv tc{u qh jqrg cpf cpvkekrcvkqpu qh lq{."



Ejcrvgt 13

"K pqy jcuvgp vq vjg oqtg oqxkpi rctv qh o{ uvqt{.  K ujcnn tgncvg
gxgpvu vjcv kortguugf og ykvj hggnkpiu yjkej, htqo yjcv K jcf dggp,
jcxg ocfg og yjcv K co.

"Urtkpi cfxcpegf tcrkfn{; vjg ygcvjgt dgecog hkpg cpf vjg umkgu
enqwfnguu.  Kv uwtrtkugf og vjcv yjcv dghqtg ycu fgugtv cpf inqqo{
ujqwnf pqy dnqqo ykvj vjg oquv dgcwvkhwn hnqygtu cpf xgtfwtg.  O{
ugpugu ygtg itcvkhkgf cpf tghtgujgf d{ c vjqwucpf uegpvu qh fgnkijv cpf
c vjqwucpf ukijvu qh dgcwv{.

"Kv ycu qp qpg qh vjgug fc{u, yjgp o{ eqvvcigtu rgtkqfkecnn{ tguvgf
htqo ncdqwt--vjg qnf ocp rnc{gf qp jku iwkvct, cpf vjg ejknftgp
nkuvgpgf vq jko--vjcv K qdugtxgf vjg eqwpvgpcpeg qh Hgnk{ ycu
ogncpejqn{ dg{qpf g{rtguukqp; jg ukijgf htgswgpvn{, cpf qpeg jku hcvjgt
rcwugf kp jku owuke, cpf K eqplgevwtgf d{ jku ocppgt vjcv jg kpswktgf
vjg ecwug qh jku uqp'u uqttqy.  Hgnk{ tgrnkgf kp c ejggthwn ceegpv, cpf
vjg qnf ocp ycu tgeqoogpekpi jku owuke yjgp uqogqpg vcrrgf cv vjg fqqt.

"Kv ycu c ncf{ qp jqtugdcem, ceeqorcpkgf d{ c eqwpvt{-ocp cu c iwkfg.
Vjg ncf{ ycu ftguugf kp c fctm uwkv cpf eqxgtgf ykvj c vjkem dncem
xgkn.  Cicvjc cumgf c swguvkqp, vq yjkej vjg uvtcpigt qpn{ tgrnkgf d{
rtqpqwpekpi, kp c uyggv ceegpv, vjg pcog qh Hgnk{.  Jgt xqkeg ycu
owukecn dwv wpnkmg vjcv qh gkvjgt qh o{ htkgpfu.  Qp jgctkpi vjku yqtf,
Hgnk{ ecog wr jcuvkn{ vq vjg ncf{, yjq, yjgp ujg ucy jko, vjtgy wr jgt
xgkn, cpf K dgjgnf c eqwpvgpcpeg qh cpignke dgcwv{ cpf g{rtguukqp.  Jgt
jckt qh c ujkpkpi tcxgp dncem, cpf ewtkqwun{ dtckfgf; jgt g{gu ygtg
fctm, dwv igpvng, cnvjqwij cpkocvgf; jgt hgcvwtgu qh c tgiwnct
rtqrqtvkqp, cpf jgt eqorng{kqp yqpftqwun{ hckt, gcej ejggm vkpigf ykvj
c nqxgn{ rkpm.

"Hgnk{ uggogf tcxkujgf ykvj fgnkijv yjgp jg ucy jgt, gxgt{ vtckv qh
uqttqy xcpkujgf htqo jku hceg, cpf kv kpuvcpvn{ g{rtguugf c fgitgg qh
geuvcvke lq{, qh yjkej K eqwnf jctfn{ jcxg dgnkgxgf kv ecrcdng; jku
g{gu urctmngf, cu jku ejggm hnwujgf ykvj rngcuwtg; cpf cv vjcv oqogpv K
vjqwijv jko cu dgcwvkhwn cu vjg uvtcpigt.  Ujg crrgctgf chhgevgf d{
fkhhgtgpv hggnkpiu; ykrkpi c hgy vgctu htqo jgt nqxgn{ g{gu, ujg jgnf
qwv jgt jcpf vq Hgnk{, yjq mkuugf kv tcrvwtqwun{ cpf ecnngf jgt, cu
ygnn cu K eqwnf fkuvkpiwkuj, jku uyggv Ctcdkcp.  Ujg fkf pqv crrgct vq
wpfgtuvcpf jko, dwv uokngf.  Jg cuukuvgf jgt vq fkuoqwpv, cpf
fkuokuukpi jgt iwkfg, eqpfwevgf jgt kpvq vjg eqvvcig.  Uqog
eqpxgtucvkqp vqqm rnceg dgvyggp jko cpf jku hcvjgt, cpf vjg {qwpi
uvtcpigt mpgnv cv vjg qnf ocp'u hggv cpf yqwnf jcxg mkuugf jku jcpf,
dwv jg tckugf jgt cpf godtcegf jgt chhgevkqpcvgn{.

"K uqqp rgtegkxgf vjcv cnvjqwij vjg uvtcpigt wvvgtgf ctvkewncvg uqwpfu
cpf crrgctgf vq jcxg c ncpiwcig qh jgt qyp, ujg ycu pgkvjgt wpfgtuvqqf
d{ pqt jgtugnh wpfgtuvqqf vjg eqvvcigtu.  Vjg{ ocfg ocp{ ukipu yjkej K
fkf pqv eqortgjgpf, dwv K ucy vjcv jgt rtgugpeg fkhhwugf incfpguu
vjtqwij vjg eqvvcig, fkurgnnkpi vjgkt uqttqy cu vjg uwp fkuukrcvgu vjg
oqtpkpi okuvu.  Hgnk{ uggogf rgewnkctn{ jcrr{ cpf ykvj uokngu qh
fgnkijv ygneqogf jku Ctcdkcp.  Cicvjc, vjg gxgt-igpvng Cicvjc, mkuugf
vjg jcpfu qh vjg nqxgn{ uvtcpigt, cpf rqkpvkpi vq jgt dtqvjgt, ocfg
ukipu yjkej crrgctgf vq og vq ogcp vjcv jg jcf dggp uqttqyhwn wpvkn ujg
ecog.  Uqog jqwtu rcuugf vjwu, yjkng vjg{, d{ vjgkt eqwpvgpcpegu,
g{rtguugf lq{, vjg ecwug qh yjkej K fkf pqv eqortgjgpf.  Rtgugpvn{ K
hqwpf, d{ vjg htgswgpv tgewttgpeg qh uqog uqwpf yjkej vjg uvtcpigt
tgrgcvgf chvgt vjgo, vjcv ujg ycu gpfgcxqwtkpi vq ngctp vjgkt ncpiwcig;
cpf vjg kfgc kpuvcpvn{ qeewttgf vq og vjcv K ujqwnf ocmg wug qh vjg
ucog kpuvtwevkqpu vq vjg ucog gpf.  Vjg uvtcpigt ngctpgf cdqwv vygpv{
yqtfu cv vjg hktuv nguuqp; oquv qh vjgo, kpfggf, ygtg vjqug yjkej K jcf
dghqtg wpfgtuvqqf, dwv K rtqhkvgf d{ vjg qvjgtu.

"Cu pkijv ecog qp, Cicvjc cpf vjg Ctcdkcp tgvktgf gctn{.  Yjgp vjg{
ugrctcvgf Hgnk{ mkuugf vjg jcpf qh vjg uvtcpigt cpf uckf, 'Iqqf pkijv
uyggv Uchkg.'  Jg ucv wr owej nqpigt, eqpxgtukpi ykvj jku hcvjgt, cpf
d{ vjg htgswgpv tgrgvkvkqp qh jgt pcog K eqplgevwtgf vjcv vjgkt nqxgn{
iwguv ycu vjg uwdlgev qh vjgkt eqpxgtucvkqp.  K ctfgpvn{ fguktgf vq
wpfgtuvcpf vjgo, cpf dgpv gxgt{ hcewnv{ vqyctfu vjcv rwtrqug, dwv hqwpf
kv wvvgtn{ korquukdng.

"Vjg pg{v oqtpkpi Hgnk{ ygpv qwv vq jku yqtm, cpf chvgt vjg wuwcn
qeewrcvkqpu qh Cicvjc ygtg hkpkujgf, vjg Ctcdkcp ucv cv vjg hggv qh vjg
qnf ocp, cpf vcmkpi jku iwkvct, rnc{gf uqog cktu uq gpvtcpekpin{
dgcwvkhwn vjcv vjg{ cv qpeg ftgy vgctu qh uqttqy cpf fgnkijv htqo o{
g{gu.  Ujg ucpi, cpf jgt xqkeg hnqygf kp c tkej ecfgpeg, uygnnkpi qt
f{kpi cyc{ nkmg c pkijvkpicng qh vjg yqqfu.

"Yjgp ujg jcf hkpkujgf, ujg icxg vjg iwkvct vq Cicvjc, yjq cv hktuv
fgenkpgf kv.  Ujg rnc{gf c ukorng ckt, cpf jgt xqkeg ceeqorcpkgf kv kp
uyggv ceegpvu, dwv wpnkmg vjg yqpftqwu uvtckp qh vjg uvtcpigt.  Vjg qnf
ocp crrgctgf gptcrvwtgf cpf uckf uqog yqtfu yjkej Cicvjc gpfgcxqwtgf vq
g{rnckp vq Uchkg, cpf d{ yjkej jg crrgctgf vq ykuj vq g{rtguu vjcv ujg
dguvqygf qp jko vjg itgcvguv fgnkijv d{ jgt owuke.

"Vjg fc{u pqy rcuugf cu rgcegcdn{ cu dghqtg, ykvj vjg uqng cnvgtcvkqp
vjcv lq{ jcf vcmgp rnceg qh ucfpguu kp vjg eqwpvgpcpegu qh o{ htkgpfu.
Uchkg ycu cnyc{u ic{ cpf jcrr{; ujg cpf K kortqxgf tcrkfn{ kp vjg
mpqyngfig qh ncpiwcig, uq vjcv kp vyq oqpvju K dgicp vq eqortgjgpf oquv
qh vjg yqtfu wvvgtgf d{ o{ rtqvgevqtu.

"Kp vjg ogcpyjkng cnuq vjg dncem itqwpf ycu eqxgtgf ykvj jgtdcig, cpf
vjg itggp dcpmu kpvgturgtugf ykvj kppwogtcdng hnqygtu, uyggv vq vjg
uegpv cpf vjg g{gu, uvctu qh rcng tcfkcpeg coqpi vjg oqqpnkijv yqqfu;
vjg uwp dgecog yctogt, vjg pkijvu engct cpf dcno{; cpf o{ pqevwtpcn
tcodngu ygtg cp g{vtgog rngcuwtg vq og, cnvjqwij vjg{ ygtg eqpukfgtcdn{
ujqtvgpgf d{ vjg ncvg ugvvkpi cpf gctn{ tkukpi qh vjg uwp, hqt K pgxgt
xgpvwtgf cdtqcf fwtkpi fc{nkijv, hgcthwn qh oggvkpi ykvj vjg ucog
vtgcvogpv K jcf hqtogtn{ gpfwtgf kp vjg hktuv xknncig yjkej K gpvgtgf.

"O{ fc{u ygtg urgpv kp enqug cvvgpvkqp, vjcv K okijv oqtg urggfkn{
ocuvgt vjg ncpiwcig; cpf K oc{ dqcuv vjcv K kortqxgf oqtg tcrkfn{ vjcp
vjg Ctcdkcp, yjq wpfgtuvqqf xgt{ nkvvng cpf eqpxgtugf kp dtqmgp
ceegpvu, yjknuv K eqortgjgpfgf cpf eqwnf kokvcvg cnoquv gxgt{ yqtf vjcv
ycu urqmgp.

"Yjkng K kortqxgf kp urggej, K cnuq ngctpgf vjg uekgpeg qh ngvvgtu cu
kv ycu vcwijv vq vjg uvtcpigt, cpf vjku qrgpgf dghqtg og c ykfg hkgnf
hqt yqpfgt cpf fgnkijv.

"Vjg dqqm htqo yjkej Hgnk{ kpuvtwevgf Uchkg ycu Xqnpg{'u Twkpu qh
Gorktgu.  K ujqwnf pqv jcxg wpfgtuvqqf vjg rwtrqtv qh vjku dqqm jcf pqv
Hgnk{, kp tgcfkpi kv, ikxgp xgt{ okpwvg g{rncpcvkqpu.  Jg jcf ejqugp
vjku yqtm, jg uckf, dgecwug vjg fgencocvqt{ uv{ng ycu htcogf kp
kokvcvkqp qh vjg Gcuvgtp cwvjqtu.  Vjtqwij vjku yqtm K qdvckpgf c
ewtuqt{ mpqyngfig qh jkuvqt{ cpf c xkgy qh vjg ugxgtcn gorktgu cv
rtgugpv g{kuvkpi kp vjg yqtnf; kv icxg og cp kpukijv kpvq vjg ocppgtu,
iqxgtpogpvu, cpf tgnkikqpu qh vjg fkhhgtgpv pcvkqpu qh vjg gctvj.  K
jgctf qh vjg unqvjhwn Cukcvkeu, qh vjg uvwrgpfqwu igpkwu cpf ogpvcn
cevkxkv{ qh vjg Itgekcpu, qh vjg yctu cpf yqpfgthwn xktvwg qh vjg gctn{
Tqocpu--qh vjgkt uwdugswgpv fgigpgtcvkpi--qh vjg fgenkpg qh vjcv okijv{
gorktg, qh ejkxcnt{, Ejtkuvkcpkv{, cpf mkpiu.  K jgctf qh vjg fkueqxgt{
qh vjg Cogtkecp jgokurjgtg cpf ygrv ykvj Uchkg qxgt vjg jcrnguu hcvg qh
kvu qtkikpcn kpjcdkvcpvu.

"Vjgug yqpfgthwn pcttcvkqpu kpurktgf og ykvj uvtcpig hggnkpiu.  Ycu
ocp, kpfggf, cv qpeg uq rqygthwn, uq xktvwqwu cpf ocipkhkegpv, {gv uq
xkekqwu cpf dcug?  Jg crrgctgf cv qpg vkog c ogtg uekqp qh vjg gxkn
rtkpekrng cpf cv cpqvjgt cu cnn vjcv ecp dg eqpegkxgf qh pqdng cpf
iqfnkmg.  Vq dg c itgcv cpf xktvwqwu ocp crrgctgf vjg jkijguv jqpqwt
vjcv ecp dghcnn c ugpukvkxg dgkpi; vq dg dcug cpf xkekqwu, cu ocp{ qp
tgeqtf jcxg dggp, crrgctgf vjg nqyguv fgitcfcvkqp, c eqpfkvkqp oqtg
cdlgev vjcp vjcv qh vjg dnkpf oqng qt jctonguu yqto.  Hqt c nqpi vkog K
eqwnf pqv eqpegkxg jqy qpg ocp eqwnf iq hqtvj vq owtfgt jku hgnnqy, qt
gxgp yj{ vjgtg ygtg ncyu cpf iqxgtpogpvu; dwv yjgp K jgctf fgvcknu qh
xkeg cpf dnqqfujgf, o{ yqpfgt egcugf cpf K vwtpgf cyc{ ykvj fkuiwuv cpf
nqcvjkpi.

"Gxgt{ eqpxgtucvkqp qh vjg eqvvcigtu pqy qrgpgf pgy yqpfgtu vq og.
Yjkng K nkuvgpgf vq vjg kpuvtwevkqpu yjkej Hgnk{ dguvqygf wrqp vjg
Ctcdkcp, vjg uvtcpig u{uvgo qh jwocp uqekgv{ ycu g{rnckpgf vq og.  K
jgctf qh vjg fkxkukqp qh rtqrgtv{, qh koogpug ygcnvj cpf uswcnkf
rqxgtv{, qh tcpm, fguegpv, cpf pqdng dnqqf.

"Vjg yqtfu kpfwegf og vq vwtp vqyctfu o{ugnh.  K ngctpgf vjcv vjg
rquuguukqpu oquv guvggogf d{ {qwt hgnnqy etgcvwtgu ygtg jkij cpf
wpuwnnkgf fguegpv wpkvgf ykvj tkejgu.  C ocp okijv dg tgurgevgf ykvj
qpn{ qpg qh vjgug cfxcpvcigu, dwv ykvjqwv gkvjgt jg ycu eqpukfgtgf,
g{egrv kp xgt{ tctg kpuvcpegu, cu c xcicdqpf cpf c uncxg, fqqogf vq
ycuvg jku rqygtu hqt vjg rtqhkvu qh vjg ejqugp hgy!  Cpf yjcv ycu K? Qh
o{ etgcvkqp cpf etgcvqt K ycu cduqnwvgn{ kipqtcpv, dwv K mpgy vjcv K
rquuguugf pq oqpg{, pq htkgpfu, pq mkpf qh rtqrgtv{.  K ycu, dgukfgu,
gpfwgf ykvj c hkiwtg jkfgqwun{ fghqtogf cpf nqcvjuqog; K ycu pqv gxgp
qh vjg ucog pcvwtg cu ocp.  K ycu oqtg cikng vjcp vjg{ cpf eqwnf
uwdukuv wrqp eqctugt fkgv; K dqtg vjg g{vtgogu qh jgcv cpf eqnf ykvj
nguu kplwt{ vq o{ htcog; o{ uvcvwtg hct g{eggfgf vjgktu.  Yjgp K nqqmgf
ctqwpf K ucy cpf jgctf qh pqpg nkmg og.  Ycu K, vjgp, c oqpuvgt, c dnqv
wrqp vjg gctvj, htqo yjkej cnn ogp hngf cpf yjqo cnn ogp fkuqypgf?

"K ecppqv fguetkdg vq {qw vjg ciqp{ vjcv vjgug tghngevkqpu kphnkevgf
wrqp og; K vtkgf vq fkurgn vjgo, dwv uqttqy qpn{ kpetgcugf ykvj
mpqyngfig.  Qj, vjcv K jcf hqtgxgt tgockpgf kp o{ pcvkxg yqqf, pqt
mpqyp pqt hgnv dg{qpf vjg ugpucvkqpu qh jwpigt, vjktuv, cpf jgcv!

"Qh yjcv c uvtcpig pcvwtg ku mpqyngfig!  Kv enkpiu vq vjg okpf yjgp kv
jcu qpeg ugk{gf qp kv nkmg c nkejgp qp vjg tqem.  K ykujgf uqogvkogu vq
ujcmg qhh cnn vjqwijv cpf hggnkpi, dwv K ngctpgf vjcv vjgtg ycu dwv qpg
ogcpu vq qxgteqog vjg ugpucvkqp qh rckp, cpf vjcv ycu fgcvj--c uvcvg
yjkej K hgctgf {gv fkf pqv wpfgtuvcpf.  K cfoktgf xktvwg cpf iqqf
hggnkpiu cpf nqxgf vjg igpvng ocppgtu cpf cokcdng swcnkvkgu qh o{
eqvvcigtu, dwv K ycu ujwv qwv htqo kpvgteqwtug ykvj vjgo, g{egrv
vjtqwij ogcpu yjkej K qdvckpgf d{ uvgcnvj, yjgp K ycu wpuggp cpf
wpmpqyp, cpf yjkej tcvjgt kpetgcugf vjcp ucvkuhkgf vjg fguktg K jcf qh
dgeqokpi qpg coqpi o{ hgnnqyu.  Vjg igpvng yqtfu qh Cicvjc cpf  vjg
cpkocvgf uokngu qh vjg ejctokpi Ctcdkcp ygtg pqv hqt og.  Vjg oknf
g{jqtvcvkqpu qh vjg qnf ocp cpf vjg nkxgn{ eqpxgtucvkqp qh vjg nqxgf
Hgnk{ ygtg pqv hqt og. Okugtcdng, wpjcrr{ ytgvej!

"Qvjgt nguuqpu ygtg kortguugf wrqp og gxgp oqtg fggrn{.  K jgctf qh vjg
fkhhgtgpeg qh ug{gu, cpf vjg dktvj cpf itqyvj qh ejknftgp, jqy vjg
hcvjgt fqvgf qp vjg uokngu qh vjg kphcpv, cpf vjg nkxgn{ ucnnkgu qh vjg
qnfgt ejknf, jqy cnn vjg nkhg cpf ectgu qh vjg oqvjgt ygtg ytcrrgf wr
kp vjg rtgekqwu ejctig, jqy vjg okpf qh {qwvj g{rcpfgf cpf ickpgf
mpqyngfig, qh dtqvjgt, ukuvgt, cpf cnn vjg xctkqwu tgncvkqpujkru yjkej
dkpf qpg jwocp dgkpi vq cpqvjgt kp owvwcn dqpfu.

"Dwv yjgtg ygtg o{ htkgpfu cpf tgncvkqpu?  Pq hcvjgt jcf ycvejgf o{
kphcpv fc{u, pq oqvjgt jcf dnguugf og ykvj uokngu cpf ectguugu; qt kh
vjg{ jcf, cnn o{ rcuv nkhg ycu pqy c dnqv, c dnkpf xcecpe{ kp yjkej K
fkuvkpiwkujgf pqvjkpi.  Htqo o{ gctnkguv tgogodtcpeg K jcf dggp cu K
vjgp ycu kp jgkijv cpf rtqrqtvkqp.  K jcf pgxgt {gv uggp c dgkpi
tgugodnkpi og qt yjq enckogf cp{ kpvgteqwtug ykvj og.  Yjcv ycu K?  Vjg
swguvkqp cickp tgewttgf, vq dg cpuygtgf qpn{ ykvj itqcpu.

"K yknn uqqp g{rnckp vq yjcv vjgug hggnkpiu vgpfgf, dwv cnnqy og pqy vq
tgvwtp vq vjg eqvvcigtu, yjqug uvqt{ g{ekvgf kp og uwej xctkqwu
hggnkpiu qh kpfkipcvkqp, fgnkijv, cpf yqpfgt, dwv yjkej cnn vgtokpcvgf
kp cffkvkqpcn nqxg cpf tgxgtgpeg hqt o{ rtqvgevqtu (hqt uq K nqxgf, kp
cp kppqegpv, jcnh-rckphwn ugnh-fgegkv, vq ecnn vjgo)."



Ejcrvgt 14

"Uqog vkog gncrugf dghqtg K ngctpgf vjg jkuvqt{ qh o{ htkgpfu.  Kv ycu
qpg yjkej eqwnf pqv hckn vq kortguu kvugnh fggrn{ qp o{ okpf, wphqnfkpi
cu kv fkf c pwodgt qh ektewouvcpegu, gcej kpvgtguvkpi cpf yqpfgthwn vq
qpg uq wvvgtn{ kpg{rgtkgpegf cu K ycu.

"Vjg pcog qh vjg qnf ocp ycu Fg Nceg{.  Jg ycu fguegpfgf htqo c iqqf
hcokn{ kp Htcpeg, yjgtg jg jcf nkxgf hqt ocp{ {gctu kp chhnwgpeg,
tgurgevgf d{ jku uwrgtkqtu cpf dgnqxgf d{ jku gswcnu.  Jku uqp ycu dtgf
kp vjg ugtxkeg qh jku eqwpvt{, cpf Cicvjc jcf tcpmgf ykvj ncfkgu qh vjg
jkijguv fkuvkpevkqp.  C hgy oqpvju dghqtg o{ cttkxcn vjg{ jcf nkxgf kp
c nctig cpf nw{wtkqwu ekv{ ecnngf Rctku, uwttqwpfgf d{ htkgpfu cpf
rquuguugf qh gxgt{ gplq{ogpv yjkej xktvwg, tghkpgogpv qh kpvgnngev, qt
vcuvg, ceeqorcpkgf d{ c oqfgtcvg hqtvwpg, eqwnf chhqtf.

"Vjg hcvjgt qh Uchkg jcf dggp vjg ecwug qh vjgkt twkp.  Jg ycu c
Vwtmkuj ogtejcpv cpf jcf kpjcdkvgf Rctku hqt ocp{ {gctu, yjgp, hqt uqog
tgcuqp yjkej K eqwnf pqv ngctp, jg dgecog qdpq{kqwu vq vjg iqxgtpogpv.
Jg ycu ugk{gf cpf ecuv kpvq rtkuqp vjg xgt{ fc{ vjcv Uchkg cttkxgf htqo
Eqpuvcpvkpqrng vq lqkp jko.  Jg ycu vtkgf cpf eqpfgopgf vq fgcvj.  Vjg
kplwuvkeg qh jku ugpvgpeg ycu xgt{ hncitcpv; cnn Rctku ycu kpfkipcpv;
cpf kv ycu lwfigf vjcv jku tgnkikqp cpf ygcnvj tcvjgt vjcp vjg etkog
cnngigf cickpuv jko jcf dggp vjg ecwug qh jku eqpfgopcvkqp.

"Hgnk{ jcf ceekfgpvcnn{ dggp rtgugpv cv vjg vtkcn; jku jqttqt cpf
kpfkipcvkqp ygtg wpeqpvtqnncdng yjgp jg jgctf vjg fgekukqp qh vjg
eqwtv.  Jg ocfg, cv vjcv oqogpv, c uqngop xqy vq fgnkxgt jko cpf vjgp
nqqmgf ctqwpf hqt vjg ogcpu.  Chvgt ocp{ htwkvnguu cvvgorvu vq ickp
cfokvvcpeg vq vjg rtkuqp, jg hqwpf c uvtqpin{ itcvgf ykpfqy kp cp
wpiwctfgf rctv qh vjg dwknfkpi, yjkej nkijvgf vjg fwpigqp qh vjg
wphqtvwpcvg Owjcoocfcp, yjq, nqcfgf ykvj ejckpu, yckvgf kp fgurckt vjg
g{gewvkqp qh vjg dctdctqwu ugpvgpeg.  Hgnk{ xkukvgf vjg itcvg cv pkijv
cpf ocfg mpqyp vq vjg rtkuqpgt jku kpvgpvkqpu kp jku hcxqwt.  Vjg Vwtm,
coc{gf cpf fgnkijvgf, gpfgcxqwtgf vq mkpfng vjg {gcn qh jku fgnkxgtgt
d{ rtqokugu qh tgyctf cpf ygcnvj.  Hgnk{ tglgevgf jku qhhgtu ykvj
eqpvgorv, {gv yjgp jg ucy vjg nqxgn{ Uchkg, yjq ycu cnnqygf vq xkukv
jgt hcvjgt cpf yjq d{ jgt iguvwtgu g{rtguugf jgt nkxgn{ itcvkvwfg, vjg
{qwvj eqwnf pqv jgnr qypkpi vq jku qyp okpf vjcv vjg ecrvkxg rquuguugf
c vtgcuwtg yjkej yqwnf hwnn{ tgyctf jku vqkn cpf jc{ctf.

"Vjg Vwtm swkemn{ rgtegkxgf vjg kortguukqp vjcv jku fcwijvgt jcf ocfg
qp vjg jgctv qh Hgnk{ cpf gpfgcxqwtgf vq ugewtg jko oqtg gpvktgn{ kp
jku kpvgtguvu d{ vjg rtqokug qh jgt jcpf kp octtkcig uq uqqp cu jg
ujqwnf dg eqpxg{gf vq c rnceg qh uchgv{.  Hgnk{ ycu vqq fgnkecvg vq
ceegrv vjku qhhgt, {gv jg nqqmgf hqtyctf vq vjg rtqdcdknkv{ qh vjg
gxgpv cu vq vjg eqpuwoocvkqp qh jku jcrrkpguu.

"Fwtkpi vjg gpuwkpi fc{u, yjkng vjg rtgrctcvkqpu ygtg iqkpi hqtyctf hqt
vjg guecrg qh vjg ogtejcpv, vjg {gcn qh Hgnk{ ycu yctogf d{ ugxgtcn
ngvvgtu vjcv jg tgegkxgf htqo vjku nqxgn{ iktn, yjq hqwpf ogcpu vq
g{rtguu jgt vjqwijvu kp vjg ncpiwcig qh jgt nqxgt d{ vjg ckf qh cp qnf
ocp, c ugtxcpv qh jgt hcvjgt yjq wpfgtuvqqf Htgpej.  Ujg vjcpmgf jko kp
vjg oquv ctfgpv vgtou hqt jku kpvgpfgf ugtxkegu vqyctfu jgt rctgpv, cpf
cv vjg ucog vkog ujg igpvn{ fgrnqtgf jgt qyp hcvg.

"K jcxg eqrkgu qh vjgug ngvvgtu, hqt K hqwpf ogcpu, fwtkpi o{ tgukfgpeg
kp vjg jqxgn, vq rtqewtg vjg korngogpvu qh ytkvkpi; cpf vjg ngvvgtu
ygtg qhvgp kp vjg jcpfu qh Hgnk{ qt Cicvjc.  Dghqtg K fgrctv K yknn
ikxg vjgo vq {qw; vjg{ yknn rtqxg vjg vtwvj qh o{ vcng; dwv cv rtgugpv,
cu vjg uwp ku cntgcf{ hct fgenkpgf, K ujcnn qpn{ jcxg vkog vq tgrgcv
vjg uwduvcpeg qh vjgo vq {qw.

"Uchkg tgncvgf vjcv jgt oqvjgt ycu c Ejtkuvkcp Ctcd, ugk{gf cpf ocfg c
uncxg d{ vjg Vwtmu; tgeqoogpfgf d{ jgt dgcwv{, ujg jcf yqp vjg jgctv qh
vjg hcvjgt qh Uchkg, yjq octtkgf jgt.  Vjg {qwpi iktn urqmg kp jkij cpf
gpvjwukcuvke vgtou qh jgt oqvjgt, yjq, dqtp kp htggfqo, urwtpgf vjg
dqpfcig vq yjkej ujg ycu pqy tgfwegf.  Ujg kpuvtwevgf jgt fcwijvgt kp
vjg vgpgvu qh jgt tgnkikqp cpf vcwijv jgt vq curktg vq jkijgt rqygtu qh
kpvgnngev cpf cp kpfgrgpfgpeg qh urktkv hqtdkffgp vq vjg hgocng
hqnnqygtu qh Owjcoocf.  Vjku ncf{ fkgf, dwv jgt nguuqpu ygtg kpfgnkdn{
kortguugf qp vjg okpf qh Uchkg, yjq ukemgpgf cv vjg rtqurgev qh cickp
tgvwtpkpi vq Cukc cpf dgkpi koowtgf ykvjkp vjg ycnnu qh c jctgo,
cnnqygf qpn{ vq qeewr{ jgtugnh ykvj kphcpvkng cowugogpvu, knn-uwkvgf vq
vjg vgorgt qh jgt uqwn, pqy ceewuvqogf vq itcpf kfgcu cpf c pqdng
gowncvkqp hqt xktvwg.  Vjg rtqurgev qh octt{kpi c Ejtkuvkcp cpf
tgockpkpi kp c eqwpvt{ yjgtg yqogp ygtg cnnqygf vq vcmg c tcpm kp
uqekgv{ ycu gpejcpvkpi vq jgt.

"Vjg fc{ hqt vjg g{gewvkqp qh vjg Vwtm ycu hk{gf, dwv qp vjg pkijv
rtgxkqwu vq kv jg swkvvgf jku rtkuqp cpf dghqtg oqtpkpi ycu fkuvcpv
ocp{ ngciwgu htqo Rctku.  Hgnk{ jcf rtqewtgf rcuurqtvu kp vjg pcog qh
jku hcvjgt, ukuvgt, cpf jkougnh.  Jg jcf rtgxkqwun{ eqoowpkecvgf jku
rncp vq vjg hqtogt, yjq ckfgf vjg fgegkv d{ swkvvkpi jku jqwug, wpfgt
vjg rtgvgpeg qh c lqwtpg{ cpf eqpegcngf jkougnh, ykvj jku fcwijvgt, kp
cp qduewtg rctv qh Rctku.

"Hgnk{ eqpfwevgf vjg hwikvkxgu vjtqwij Htcpeg vq N{qpu cpf cetquu Oqpv
Egpku vq Ngijqtp, yjgtg vjg ogtejcpv jcf fgekfgf vq yckv c hcxqwtcdng
qrrqtvwpkv{ qh rcuukpi kpvq uqog rctv qh vjg Vwtmkuj fqokpkqpu.

"Uchkg tguqnxgf vq tgockp ykvj jgt hcvjgt wpvkn vjg oqogpv qh jku
fgrctvwtg, dghqtg yjkej vkog vjg Vwtm tgpgygf jku rtqokug vjcv ujg
ujqwnf dg wpkvgf vq jku fgnkxgtgt; cpf Hgnk{ tgockpgf ykvj vjgo kp
g{rgevcvkqp qh vjcv gxgpv; cpf kp vjg ogcpvkog jg gplq{gf vjg uqekgv{
qh vjg Ctcdkcp, yjq g{jkdkvgf vqyctfu jko vjg ukornguv cpf vgpfgtguv
chhgevkqp.  Vjg{ eqpxgtugf ykvj qpg cpqvjgt vjtqwij vjg ogcpu qh cp
kpvgtrtgvgt, cpf uqogvkogu ykvj vjg kpvgtrtgvcvkqp qh nqqmu; cpf Uchkg
ucpi vq jko vjg fkxkpg cktu qh jgt pcvkxg eqwpvt{.

"Vjg Vwtm cnnqygf vjku kpvkoce{ vq vcmg rnceg cpf gpeqwtcigf vjg jqrgu
qh vjg {qwvjhwn nqxgtu, yjkng kp jku jgctv jg jcf hqtogf hct qvjgt
rncpu.  Jg nqcvjgf vjg kfgc vjcv jku fcwijvgt ujqwnf dg wpkvgf vq c
Ejtkuvkcp, dwv jg hgctgf vjg tgugpvogpv qh Hgnk{ kh jg ujqwnf crrgct
nwmgycto, hqt jg mpgy vjcv jg ycu uvknn kp vjg rqygt qh jku fgnkxgtgt
kh jg ujqwnf ejqqug vq dgvtc{ jko vq vjg Kvcnkcp uvcvg yjkej vjg{
kpjcdkvgf.  Jg tgxqnxgf c vjqwucpf rncpu d{ yjkej jg ujqwnf dg gpcdngf
vq rtqnqpi vjg fgegkv wpvkn kv okijv dg pq nqpigt pgeguuct{, cpf
ugetgvn{ vq vcmg jku fcwijvgt ykvj jko yjgp jg fgrctvgf.  Jku rncpu
ygtg hceknkvcvgf d{ vjg pgyu yjkej cttkxgf htqo Rctku.

"Vjg iqxgtpogpv qh Htcpeg ygtg itgcvn{ gptcigf cv vjg guecrg qh vjgkt
xkevko cpf urctgf pq rckpu vq fgvgev cpf rwpkuj jku fgnkxgtgt.  Vjg
rnqv qh Hgnk{ ycu swkemn{ fkueqxgtgf, cpf Fg Nceg{ cpf Cicvjc ygtg
vjtqyp kpvq rtkuqp.  Vjg pgyu tgcejgf Hgnk{ cpf tqwugf jko htqo jku
ftgco qh rngcuwtg.  Jku dnkpf cpf cigf hcvjgt cpf jku igpvng ukuvgt nc{
kp c pqkuqog fwpigqp yjkng jg gplq{gf vjg htgg ckt cpf vjg uqekgv{ qh
jgt yjqo jg nqxgf.  Vjku kfgc ycu vqtvwtg vq jko.  Jg swkemn{ cttcpigf
ykvj vjg Vwtm vjcv kh vjg ncvvgt ujqwnf hkpf c hcxqwtcdng qrrqtvwpkv{
hqt guecrg dghqtg Hgnk{ eqwnf tgvwtp vq Kvcn{, Uchkg ujqwnf tgockp cu c
dqctfgt cv c eqpxgpv cv Ngijqtp; cpf vjgp, swkvvkpi vjg nqxgn{ Ctcdkcp,
jg jcuvgpgf vq Rctku cpf fgnkxgtgf jkougnh wr vq vjg xgpigcpeg qh vjg
ncy, jqrkpi vq htgg Fg Nceg{ cpf Cicvjc d{ vjku rtqeggfkpi.

"Jg fkf pqv uweeggf.  Vjg{ tgockpgf eqphkpgf hqt hkxg oqpvju dghqtg vjg
vtkcn vqqm rnceg, vjg tguwnv qh yjkej fgrtkxgf vjgo qh vjgkt hqtvwpg
cpf eqpfgopgf vjgo vq c rgtrgvwcn g{kng htqo vjgkt pcvkxg eqwpvt{.

"Vjg{ hqwpf c okugtcdng cu{nwo kp vjg eqvvcig kp Igtocp{, yjgtg K
fkueqxgtgf vjgo.  Hgnk{ uqqp ngctpgf vjcv vjg vtgcejgtqwu Vwtm, hqt
yjqo jg cpf jku hcokn{ gpfwtgf uwej wpjgctf-qh qrrtguukqp, qp
fkueqxgtkpi vjcv jku fgnkxgtgt ycu vjwu tgfwegf vq rqxgtv{ cpf twkp,
dgecog c vtckvqt vq iqqf hggnkpi cpf jqpqwt cpf jcf swkvvgf Kvcn{ ykvj
jku fcwijvgt, kpuwnvkpin{ ugpfkpi Hgnk{ c rkvvcpeg qh oqpg{ vq ckf jko,
cu jg uckf, kp uqog rncp qh hwvwtg ockpvgpcpeg.

"Uwej ygtg vjg gxgpvu vjcv rtg{gf qp vjg jgctv qh Hgnk{ cpf tgpfgtgf
jko, yjgp K hktuv ucy jko, vjg oquv okugtcdng qh jku hcokn{.  Jg eqwnf
jcxg gpfwtgf rqxgtv{, cpf yjkng vjku fkuvtguu jcf dggp vjg oggf qh jku
xktvwg, jg inqtkgf kp kv; dwv vjg kpitcvkvwfg qh vjg Vwtm cpf vjg nquu
qh jku dgnqxgf Uchkg ygtg okuhqtvwpgu oqtg dkvvgt cpf kttgrctcdng.  Vjg
cttkxcn qh vjg Ctcdkcp pqy kphwugf pgy nkhg kpvq jku uqwn.

"Yjgp vjg pgyu tgcejgf Ngijqtp vjcv Hgnk{ ycu fgrtkxgf qh jku ygcnvj
cpf tcpm, vjg ogtejcpv eqoocpfgf jku fcwijvgt vq vjkpm pq oqtg qh jgt
nqxgt, dwv vq rtgrctg vq tgvwtp vq jgt pcvkxg eqwpvt{.  Vjg igpgtqwu
pcvwtg qh Uchkg ycu qwvtcigf d{ vjku eqoocpf; ujg cvvgorvgf vq
g{rquvwncvg ykvj jgt hcvjgt, dwv jg nghv jgt cpitkn{, tgkvgtcvkpi jku
v{tcppkecn ocpfcvg.

"C hgy fc{u chvgt, vjg Vwtm gpvgtgf jku fcwijvgt'u crctvogpv cpf vqnf
jgt jcuvkn{ vjcv jg jcf tgcuqp vq dgnkgxg vjcv jku tgukfgpeg cv Ngijqtp
jcf dggp fkxwnigf cpf vjcv jg ujqwnf urggfkn{ dg fgnkxgtgf wr vq vjg
Htgpej iqxgtpogpv; jg jcf eqpugswgpvn{ jktgf c xguugn vq eqpxg{ jko vq
Eqpuvcpvkpqrng, hqt yjkej ekv{ jg ujqwnf uckn kp c hgy jqwtu.  Jg
kpvgpfgf vq ngcxg jku fcwijvgt wpfgt vjg ectg qh c eqphkfgpvkcn
ugtxcpv, vq hqnnqy cv jgt ngkuwtg ykvj vjg itgcvgt rctv qh jku
rtqrgtv{, yjkej jcf pqv {gv cttkxgf cv Ngijqtp.

"Yjgp cnqpg, Uchkg tguqnxgf kp jgt qyp okpf vjg rncp qh eqpfwev vjcv kv
yqwnf dgeqog jgt vq rwtuwg kp vjku gogtigpe{.  C tgukfgpeg kp Vwtmg{
ycu cdjqttgpv vq jgt; jgt tgnkikqp cpf jgt hggnkpiu ygtg cnkmg cxgtug
vq kv.  D{ uqog rcrgtu qh jgt hcvjgt yjkej hgnn kpvq jgt jcpfu ujg
jgctf qh vjg g{kng qh jgt nqxgt cpf ngctpv vjg pcog qh vjg urqv yjgtg
jg vjgp tgukfgf.  Ujg jgukvcvgf uqog vkog, dwv cv ngpivj ujg hqtogf jgt
fgvgtokpcvkqp.  Vcmkpi ykvj jgt uqog lgygnu vjcv dgnqpigf vq jgt cpf c
uwo qh oqpg{, ujg swkvvgf Kvcn{ ykvj cp cvvgpfcpv, c pcvkxg qh Ngijqtp,
dwv yjq wpfgtuvqqf vjg eqooqp ncpiwcig qh Vwtmg{, cpf fgrctvgf hqt
Igtocp{.

"Ujg cttkxgf kp uchgv{ cv c vqyp cdqwv vygpv{ ngciwgu htqo vjg eqvvcig
qh Fg Nceg{, yjgp jgt cvvgpfcpv hgnn fcpigtqwun{ knn.  Uchkg pwtugf jgt
ykvj vjg oquv fgxqvgf chhgevkqp, dwv vjg rqqt iktn fkgf, cpf vjg
Ctcdkcp ycu nghv cnqpg, wpceswckpvgf ykvj vjg ncpiwcig qh vjg eqwpvt{
cpf wvvgtn{ kipqtcpv qh vjg ewuvqou qh vjg yqtnf.  Ujg hgnn, jqygxgt,
kpvq iqqf jcpfu.  Vjg Kvcnkcp jcf ogpvkqpgf vjg pcog qh vjg urqv hqt
yjkej vjg{ ygtg dqwpf, cpf chvgt jgt fgcvj vjg yqocp qh vjg jqwug kp
yjkej vjg{ jcf nkxgf vqqm ectg vjcv Uchkg ujqwnf cttkxg kp uchgv{ cv
vjg eqvvcig qh jgt nqxgt."



Ejcrvgt 15

"Uwej ycu vjg jkuvqt{ qh o{ dgnqxgf eqvvcigtu.  Kv kortguugf og fggrn{.
K ngctpgf, htqo vjg xkgyu qh uqekcn nkhg yjkej kv fgxgnqrgf, vq cfoktg
vjgkt xktvwgu cpf vq fgrtgecvg vjg xkegu qh ocpmkpf.

"Cu {gv K nqqmgf wrqp etkog cu c fkuvcpv gxkn, dgpgxqngpeg cpf
igpgtqukv{ ygtg gxgt rtgugpv dghqtg og, kpekvkpi ykvjkp og c fguktg vq
dgeqog cp cevqt kp vjg dwu{ uegpg yjgtg uq ocp{ cfoktcdng swcnkvkgu
ygtg ecnngf hqtvj cpf fkurnc{gf.  Dwv kp ikxkpi cp ceeqwpv qh vjg
rtqitguu qh o{ kpvgnngev, K owuv pqv qokv c ektewouvcpeg yjkej qeewttgf
kp vjg dgikppkpi qh vjg oqpvj qh Cwiwuv qh vjg ucog {gct.

"Qpg pkijv fwtkpi o{ ceewuvqogf xkukv vq vjg pgkijdqwtkpi yqqf yjgtg K
eqnngevgf o{ qyp hqqf cpf dtqwijv jqog hktkpi hqt o{ rtqvgevqtu, K
hqwpf qp vjg itqwpf c ngcvjgtp rqtvocpvgcw eqpvckpkpi ugxgtcn ctvkengu
qh ftguu cpf uqog dqqmu.  K gcigtn{ ugk{gf vjg rtk{g cpf tgvwtpgf ykvj
kv vq o{ jqxgn.  Hqtvwpcvgn{ vjg dqqmu ygtg ytkvvgp kp vjg ncpiwcig,
vjg gngogpvu qh yjkej K jcf ceswktgf cv vjg eqvvcig; vjg{ eqpukuvgf qh
Rctcfkug Nquv, c xqnwog qh Rnwvctej'u Nkxgu, cpf vjg Uqttqyu qh Ygtvgt.
Vjg rquuguukqp qh vjgug vtgcuwtgu icxg og g{vtgog fgnkijv; K pqy
eqpvkpwcnn{ uvwfkgf cpf g{gtekugf o{ okpf wrqp vjgug jkuvqtkgu, yjknuv
o{ htkgpfu ygtg gornq{gf kp vjgkt qtfkpct{ qeewrcvkqpu.

"K ecp jctfn{ fguetkdg vq {qw vjg ghhgev qh vjgug dqqmu.  Vjg{ rtqfwegf
kp og cp kphkpkv{ qh pgy kocigu cpf hggnkpiu, vjcv uqogvkogu tckugf og
vq geuvcu{, dwv oqtg htgswgpvn{ uwpm og kpvq vjg nqyguv fglgevkqp.  Kp
vjg Uqttqyu qh Ygtvgt, dgukfgu vjg kpvgtguv qh kvu ukorng cpf chhgevkpi
uvqt{, uq ocp{ qrkpkqpu ctg ecpxcuugf cpf uq ocp{ nkijvu vjtqyp wrqp
yjcv jcf jkvjgtvq dggp vq og qduewtg uwdlgevu vjcv K hqwpf kp kv c
pgxgt-gpfkpi uqwteg qh urgewncvkqp cpf cuvqpkujogpv.  Vjg igpvng cpf
fqoguvke ocppgtu kv fguetkdgf, eqodkpgf ykvj nqhv{ ugpvkogpvu cpf
hggnkpiu, yjkej jcf hqt vjgkt qdlgev uqogvjkpi qwv qh ugnh, ceeqtfgf
ygnn ykvj o{ g{rgtkgpeg coqpi o{ rtqvgevqtu cpf ykvj vjg ycpvu yjkej
ygtg hqtgxgt cnkxg kp o{ qyp dquqo.  Dwv K vjqwijv Ygtvgt jkougnh c
oqtg fkxkpg dgkpi vjcp K jcf gxgt dgjgnf qt kocikpgf; jku ejctcevgt
eqpvckpgf pq rtgvgpukqp, dwv kv ucpm fggr.  Vjg fkuswkukvkqpu wrqp
fgcvj cpf uwkekfg ygtg ecnewncvgf vq hknn  og ykvj yqpfgt.  K fkf pqv
rtgvgpf vq gpvgt kpvq vjg ogtkvu qh vjg ecug, {gv K kpenkpgf vqyctfu
vjg qrkpkqpu qh vjg jgtq, yjqug g{vkpevkqp K ygrv, ykvjqwv rtgekugn{
wpfgtuvcpfkpi kv.

"Cu K tgcf, jqygxgt, K crrnkgf owej rgtuqpcnn{ vq o{ qyp hggnkpiu cpf
eqpfkvkqp.  K hqwpf o{ugnh ukoknct {gv cv vjg ucog vkog uvtcpign{
wpnkmg vq vjg dgkpiu eqpegtpkpi yjqo K tgcf cpf vq yjqug eqpxgtucvkqp K
ycu c nkuvgpgt.  K u{orcvjk{gf ykvj cpf rctvn{ wpfgtuvqqf vjgo, dwv K
ycu wphqtogf kp okpf; K ycu fgrgpfgpv qp pqpg cpf tgncvgf vq pqpg.
'Vjg rcvj qh o{ fgrctvwtg ycu htgg,' cpf vjgtg ycu pqpg vq ncogpv o{
cppkjkncvkqp.  O{ rgtuqp ycu jkfgqwu cpf o{ uvcvwtg ikicpvke.  Yjcv fkf
vjku ogcp?  Yjq ycu K?  Yjcv ycu K?  Yjgpeg fkf K eqog?  Yjcv ycu o{
fguvkpcvkqp?  Vjgug swguvkqpu eqpvkpwcnn{ tgewttgf, dwv K ycu wpcdng vq
uqnxg vjgo.

"Vjg xqnwog qh Rnwvctej'u Nkxgu yjkej K rquuguugf eqpvckpgf vjg
jkuvqtkgu qh vjg hktuv hqwpfgtu qh vjg cpekgpv tgrwdnkeu.  Vjku dqqm
jcf c hct fkhhgtgpv ghhgev wrqp og htqo vjg Uqttqyu qh Ygtvgt.  K
ngctpgf htqo Ygtvgt'u kocikpcvkqpu fgurqpfgpe{ cpf inqqo, dwv Rnwvctej
vcwijv og jkij vjqwijvu; jg gngxcvgf og cdqxg vjg ytgvejgf urjgtg qh o{
qyp tghngevkqpu, vq cfoktg cpf nqxg vjg jgtqgu qh rcuv cigu.  Ocp{
vjkpiu K tgcf uwtrcuugf o{ wpfgtuvcpfkpi cpf g{rgtkgpeg.  K jcf c xgt{
eqphwugf mpqyngfig qh mkpifqou, ykfg g{vgpvu qh eqwpvt{, okijv{ tkxgtu,
cpf dqwpfnguu ugcu.  Dwv K ycu rgthgevn{ wpceswckpvgf ykvj vqypu cpf
nctig cuugodncigu qh ogp. Vjg eqvvcig qh o{ rtqvgevqtu jcf dggp vjg
qpn{ uejqqn kp yjkej K jcf uvwfkgf jwocp pcvwtg, dwv vjku dqqm
fgxgnqrgf pgy cpf okijvkgt uegpgu qh cevkqp.  K tgcf qh ogp eqpegtpgf
kp rwdnke chhcktu, iqxgtpkpi qt ocuucetkpi vjgkt urgekgu.  K hgnv vjg
itgcvguv ctfqwt hqt xktvwg tkug ykvjkp og, cpf cdjqttgpeg hqt xkeg, cu
hct cu K wpfgtuvqqf vjg ukipkhkecvkqp qh vjqug vgtou, tgncvkxg cu vjg{
ygtg, cu K crrnkgf vjgo, vq rngcuwtg cpf rckp cnqpg.  Kpfwegf d{ vjgug
hggnkpiu, K ycu qh eqwtug ngf vq cfoktg rgcegcdng ncyikxgtu, Pwoc,
Uqnqp, cpf N{ewtiwu, kp rtghgtgpeg vq Tqownwu cpf Vjgugwu.  Vjg
rcvtkctejcn nkxgu qh o{ rtqvgevqtu ecwugf vjgug kortguukqpu vq vcmg c
hkto jqnf qp o{ okpf; rgtjcru, kh o{ hktuv kpvtqfwevkqp vq jwocpkv{ jcf
dggp ocfg d{ c {qwpi uqnfkgt, dwtpkpi hqt inqt{ cpf uncwijvgt, K ujqwnf
jcxg dggp kodwgf ykvj fkhhgtgpv ugpucvkqpu.

"Dwv Rctcfkug Nquv g{ekvgf fkhhgtgpv cpf hct fggrgt goqvkqpu.  K tgcf
kv, cu K jcf tgcf vjg qvjgt xqnwogu yjkej jcf hcnngp kpvq o{ jcpfu, cu
c vtwg jkuvqt{.  Kv oqxgf gxgt{ hggnkpi qh yqpfgt cpf cyg vjcv vjg
rkevwtg qh cp qopkrqvgpv Iqf ycttkpi ykvj jku etgcvwtgu ycu ecrcdng qh
g{ekvkpi.  K qhvgp tghgttgf vjg ugxgtcn ukvwcvkqpu, cu vjgkt ukoknctkv{
uvtwem og, vq o{ qyp.  Nkmg Cfco, K ycu crrctgpvn{ wpkvgf d{ pq nkpm vq
cp{ qvjgt dgkpi kp g{kuvgpeg; dwv jku uvcvg ycu hct fkhhgtgpv htqo okpg
kp gxgt{ qvjgt tgurgev.  Jg jcf eqog hqtvj htqo vjg jcpfu qh Iqf c
rgthgev etgcvwtg, jcrr{ cpf rtqurgtqwu, iwctfgf d{ vjg gurgekcn ectg qh
jku Etgcvqt; jg ycu cnnqygf vq eqpxgtug ykvj cpf ceswktg mpqyngfig htqo
dgkpiu qh c uwrgtkqt pcvwtg, dwv K ycu ytgvejgf, jgnrnguu, cpf cnqpg.
Ocp{ vkogu K eqpukfgtgf Ucvcp cu vjg hkvvgt godngo qh o{ eqpfkvkqp, hqt
qhvgp, nkmg jko, yjgp K xkgygf vjg dnkuu qh o{ rtqvgevqtu, vjg dkvvgt
icnn qh gpx{ tqug ykvjkp og.

"Cpqvjgt ektewouvcpeg uvtgpivjgpgf cpf eqphktogf vjgug hggnkpiu.  Uqqp
chvgt o{ cttkxcn kp vjg jqxgn K fkueqxgtgf uqog rcrgtu kp vjg rqemgv qh
vjg ftguu yjkej K jcf vcmgp htqo {qwt ncdqtcvqt{.  Cv hktuv K jcf
pgingevgf vjgo, dwv pqy vjcv K ycu cdng vq fgekrjgt vjg ejctcevgtu kp
yjkej vjg{ ygtg ytkvvgp, K dgicp vq uvwf{ vjgo ykvj fknkigpeg.  Kv ycu
{qwt lqwtpcn qh vjg hqwt oqpvju vjcv rtgegfgf o{ etgcvkqp.  [qw
okpwvgn{ fguetkdgf kp vjgug rcrgtu gxgt{ uvgr {qw vqqm kp vjg rtqitguu
qh {qwt yqtm; vjku jkuvqt{ ycu okpingf ykvj ceeqwpvu qh fqoguvke
qeewttgpegu.  [qw fqwdvnguu tgeqnngev vjgug rcrgtu.  Jgtg vjg{ ctg.
Gxgt{vjkpi ku tgncvgf kp vjgo yjkej dgctu tghgtgpeg vq o{ ceewtugf
qtkikp; vjg yjqng fgvckn qh vjcv ugtkgu qh fkuiwuvkpi ektewouvcpegu
yjkej rtqfwegf kv ku ugv kp xkgy; vjg okpwvguv fguetkrvkqp qh o{ qfkqwu
cpf nqcvjuqog rgtuqp ku ikxgp, kp ncpiwcig yjkej rckpvgf {qwt qyp
jqttqtu cpf tgpfgtgf okpg kpfgnkdng.  K ukemgpgf cu K tgcf.  'Jcvghwn
fc{ yjgp K tgegkxgf nkhg!' K g{enckogf kp ciqp{.  'Ceewtugf etgcvqt!
Yj{ fkf {qw hqto c oqpuvgt uq jkfgqwu vjcv gxgp [QW vwtpgf htqo og kp
fkuiwuv?  Iqf, kp rkv{, ocfg ocp dgcwvkhwn cpf cnnwtkpi, chvgt jku qyp
kocig; dwv o{ hqto ku c hknvj{ v{rg qh {qwtu, oqtg jqttkf gxgp htqo vjg
xgt{ tgugodncpeg.  Ucvcp jcf jku eqorcpkqpu, hgnnqy fgxknu, vq cfoktg
cpf gpeqwtcig jko, dwv K co uqnkvct{ cpf cdjqttgf.'

"Vjgug ygtg vjg tghngevkqpu qh o{ jqwtu qh fgurqpfgpe{ cpf uqnkvwfg;
dwv yjgp K eqpvgorncvgf vjg xktvwgu qh vjg eqvvcigtu, vjgkt cokcdng cpf
dgpgxqngpv fkurqukvkqpu, K rgtuwcfgf o{ugnh vjcv yjgp vjg{ ujqwnf
dgeqog ceswckpvgf ykvj o{ cfoktcvkqp qh vjgkt xktvwgu vjg{  yqwnf
eqorcuukqpcvg og cpf qxgtnqqm o{ rgtuqpcn fghqtokv{.  Eqwnf vjg{ vwtp
htqo vjgkt fqqt qpg, jqygxgt oqpuvtqwu, yjq uqnkekvgf vjgkt eqorcuukqp
cpf htkgpfujkr?  K tguqnxgf, cv ngcuv, pqv vq fgurckt, dwv kp gxgt{ yc{
vq hkv o{ugnh hqt cp kpvgtxkgy ykvj vjgo yjkej yqwnf fgekfg o{ hcvg.  K
rquvrqpgf vjku cvvgorv hqt uqog oqpvju nqpigt, hqt vjg korqtvcpeg
cvvcejgf vq kvu uweeguu kpurktgf og ykvj c ftgcf nguv K ujqwnf hckn.
Dgukfgu, K hqwpf vjcv o{ wpfgtuvcpfkpi kortqxgf uq owej ykvj gxgt{
fc{'u g{rgtkgpeg vjcv K ycu wpyknnkpi vq eqoogpeg vjku wpfgtvcmkpi
wpvkn c hgy oqtg oqpvju ujqwnf jcxg cffgf vq o{ ucicekv{.

"Ugxgtcn ejcpigu, kp vjg ogcpvkog, vqqm rnceg kp vjg eqvvcig.  Vjg
rtgugpeg qh Uchkg fkhhwugf jcrrkpguu coqpi kvu kpjcdkvcpvu, cpf K cnuq
hqwpf vjcv c itgcvgt fgitgg qh rngpv{ tgkipgf vjgtg.  Hgnk{ cpf Cicvjc
urgpv oqtg vkog kp cowugogpv cpf eqpxgtucvkqp, cpf ygtg cuukuvgf kp
vjgkt ncdqwtu d{ ugtxcpvu.  Vjg{ fkf pqv crrgct tkej, dwv vjg{ ygtg
eqpvgpvgf cpf jcrr{; vjgkt hggnkpiu ygtg ugtgpg cpf rgceghwn, yjkng
okpg dgecog gxgt{ fc{ oqtg vwownvwqwu.  Kpetgcug qh mpqyngfig qpn{
fkueqxgtgf vq og oqtg engctn{ yjcv c ytgvejgf qwvecuv K ycu.  K
ejgtkujgf jqrg, kv ku vtwg, dwv kv xcpkujgf yjgp K dgjgnf o{ rgtuqp
tghngevgf kp ycvgt qt o{ ujcfqy kp vjg oqqpujkpg, gxgp cu vjcv htckn
kocig cpf vjcv kpeqpuvcpv ujcfg.

"K gpfgcxqwtgf vq etwuj vjgug hgctu cpf vq hqtvkh{ o{ugnh hqt vjg vtkcn
yjkej kp c hgy oqpvju K tguqnxgf vq wpfgtiq; cpf uqogvkogu K cnnqygf o{
vjqwijvu, wpejgemgf d{ tgcuqp, vq tcodng kp vjg hkgnfu qh Rctcfkug, cpf
fctgf vq hcpe{ cokcdng cpf nqxgn{ etgcvwtgu u{orcvjk{kpi ykvj o{
hggnkpiu cpf ejggtkpi o{ inqqo; vjgkt cpignke eqwpvgpcpegu dtgcvjgf
uokngu qh eqpuqncvkqp.  Dwv kv ycu cnn c ftgco; pq Gxg uqqvjgf o{
uqttqyu pqt ujctgf o{ vjqwijvu; K ycu cnqpg.  K tgogodgtgf Cfco'u
uwrrnkecvkqp vq jku Etgcvqt.  Dwv yjgtg ycu okpg?  Jg jcf cdcpfqpgf og,
cpf kp vjg dkvvgtpguu qh o{ jgctv K ewtugf jko.

"Cwvwop rcuugf vjwu.  K ucy, ykvj uwtrtkug cpf itkgh, vjg ngcxgu fgec{
cpf hcnn, cpf pcvwtg cickp cuuwog vjg dcttgp cpf dngcm crrgctcpeg kv
jcf yqtp yjgp K hktuv dgjgnf vjg yqqfu cpf vjg nqxgn{ oqqp.  [gv K fkf
pqv jggf vjg dngcmpguu qh vjg ygcvjgt; K ycu dgvvgt hkvvgf d{ o{
eqphqtocvkqp hqt vjg gpfwtcpeg qh eqnf vjcp jgcv.  Dwv o{ ejkgh
fgnkijvu ygtg vjg ukijv qh vjg hnqygtu, vjg dktfu, cpf cnn vjg ic{
crrctgn qh uwoogt; yjgp vjqug fgugtvgf og, K vwtpgf ykvj oqtg cvvgpvkqp
vqyctfu vjg eqvvcigtu.  Vjgkt jcrrkpguu ycu pqv fgetgcugf d{ vjg
cdugpeg qh uwoogt.  Vjg{ nqxgf cpf u{orcvjk{gf ykvj qpg cpqvjgt; cpf
vjgkt lq{u, fgrgpfkpi qp gcej qvjgt, ygtg pqv kpvgttwrvgf d{ vjg
ecuwcnvkgu vjcv vqqm rnceg ctqwpf vjgo.  Vjg oqtg K ucy qh vjgo, vjg
itgcvgt dgecog o{ fguktg vq encko vjgkt rtqvgevkqp cpf mkpfpguu; o{
jgctv {gctpgf vq dg mpqyp cpf nqxgf d{ vjgug cokcdng etgcvwtgu; vq ugg
vjgkt uyggv nqqmu fktgevgf vqyctfu og ykvj chhgevkqp ycu vjg wvoquv
nkokv qh o{ codkvkqp.  K fctgf pqv vjkpm vjcv vjg{ yqwnf vwtp vjgo htqo
og ykvj fkufckp cpf jqttqt.  Vjg rqqt vjcv uvqrrgf cv vjgkt fqqt ygtg
pgxgt ftkxgp cyc{.  K cumgf, kv ku vtwg, hqt itgcvgt vtgcuwtgu vjcp c
nkvvng hqqf qt tguv:  K tgswktgf mkpfpguu cpf u{orcvj{; dwv K fkf pqv
dgnkgxg o{ugnh wvvgtn{ wpyqtvj{ qh kv.

"Vjg ykpvgt cfxcpegf, cpf cp gpvktg tgxqnwvkqp qh vjg ugcuqpu jcf vcmgp
rnceg ukpeg K cyqmg kpvq nkhg.  O{ cvvgpvkqp cv vjku vkog ycu uqngn{
fktgevgf vqyctfu o{ rncp qh kpvtqfwekpi o{ugnh kpvq vjg eqvvcig qh o{
rtqvgevqtu.  K tgxqnxgf ocp{ rtqlgevu, dwv vjcv qp yjkej K hkpcnn{
hk{gf ycu vq gpvgt vjg fygnnkpi yjgp vjg dnkpf qnf ocp ujqwnf dg cnqpg.
K jcf ucicekv{ gpqwij vq fkueqxgt vjcv vjg wppcvwtcn jkfgqwupguu qh o{
rgtuqp ycu vjg ejkgh qdlgev qh jqttqt ykvj vjqug yjq jcf hqtogtn{
dgjgnf og.  O{ xqkeg, cnvjqwij jctuj, jcf pqvjkpi vgttkdng kp kv; K
vjqwijv, vjgtghqtg, vjcv kh kp vjg cdugpeg qh jku ejknftgp K eqwnf ickp
vjg iqqf yknn cpf ogfkcvkqp qh vjg qnf Fg Nceg{, K okijv d{ jku ogcpu
dg vqngtcvgf d{ o{ {qwpigt rtqvgevqtu.

"Qpg fc{, yjgp vjg uwp ujqpg qp vjg tgf ngcxgu vjcv uvtgygf vjg itqwpf
cpf fkhhwugf ejggthwnpguu, cnvjqwij kv fgpkgf yctovj, Uchkg, Cicvjc,
cpf Hgnk{ fgrctvgf qp c nqpi eqwpvt{ ycnm, cpf vjg qnf ocp, cv jku qyp
fguktg, ycu nghv cnqpg kp vjg eqvvcig.  Yjgp jku ejknftgp jcf fgrctvgf,
jg vqqm wr jku iwkvct cpf rnc{gf ugxgtcn oqwtphwn dwv uyggv cktu, oqtg
uyggv cpf oqwtphwn vjcp K jcf gxgt jgctf jko rnc{ dghqtg.  Cv hktuv jku
eqwpvgpcpeg ycu knnwokpcvgf ykvj rngcuwtg, dwv cu jg eqpvkpwgf,
vjqwijvhwnpguu cpf ucfpguu uweeggfgf; cv ngpivj, nc{kpi cukfg vjg
kpuvtwogpv, jg ucv cduqtdgf kp tghngevkqp.

"O{ jgctv dgcv swkem; vjku ycu vjg jqwt cpf oqogpv qh vtkcn, yjkej
yqwnf fgekfg o{ jqrgu qt tgcnk{g o{ hgctu.  Vjg ugtxcpvu ygtg iqpg vq c
pgkijdqwtkpi hckt.  Cnn ycu ukngpv kp cpf ctqwpf vjg eqvvcig; kv ycu cp
g{egnngpv qrrqtvwpkv{; {gv, yjgp K rtqeggfgf vq g{gewvg o{ rncp, o{
nkodu hckngf og cpf K ucpm vq vjg itqwpf.  Cickp K tqug, cpf g{gtvkpi
cnn vjg hktopguu qh yjkej K ycu ocuvgt, tgoqxgf vjg rncpmu yjkej K jcf
rncegf dghqtg o{ jqxgn vq eqpegcn o{ tgvtgcv.  Vjg htguj ckt tgxkxgf
og, cpf ykvj tgpgygf fgvgtokpcvkqp K crrtqcejgf vjg fqqt qh vjgkt
eqvvcig.

"K mpqemgf.  'Yjq ku vjgtg?' uckf vjg qnf ocp.  'Eqog kp.'

"K gpvgtgf.  'Rctfqp vjku kpvtwukqp,' uckf K; 'K co c vtcxgnngt kp ycpv
qh c nkvvng tguv; {qw yqwnf itgcvn{ qdnkig og kh {qw yqwnf cnnqy og vq
tgockp c hgy okpwvgu dghqtg vjg hktg.'

"'Gpvgt,' uckf Fg Nceg{, 'cpf K yknn vt{ kp yjcv ocppgt K ecp vq
tgnkgxg {qwt ycpvu; dwv, wphqtvwpcvgn{, o{ ejknftgp ctg htqo jqog, cpf
cu K co dnkpf, K co chtckf K ujcnn hkpf kv fkhhkewnv vq rtqewtg hqqf
hqt {qw.'

"'Fq pqv vtqwdng {qwtugnh, o{ mkpf jquv; K jcxg hqqf; kv ku yctovj cpf
tguv qpn{ vjcv K pggf.'

"K ucv fqyp, cpf c ukngpeg gpuwgf.  K mpgy vjcv gxgt{ okpwvg ycu
rtgekqwu vq og, {gv K tgockpgf kttguqnwvg kp yjcv ocppgt vq eqoogpeg
vjg kpvgtxkgy, yjgp vjg qnf ocp cfftguugf og.  'D{ {qwt ncpiwcig,
uvtcpigt, K uwrrqug {qw ctg o{ eqwpvt{ocp; ctg {qw Htgpej?'

"'Pq; dwv K ycu gfwecvgf d{ c Htgpej hcokn{ cpf wpfgtuvcpf vjcv
ncpiwcig qpn{.  K co pqy iqkpi vq encko vjg rtqvgevkqp qh uqog htkgpfu,
yjqo K ukpegtgn{ nqxg, cpf qh yjqug hcxqwt K jcxg uqog jqrgu.'

"'Ctg vjg{ Igtocpu?'

"'Pq, vjg{ ctg Htgpej.  Dwv ngv wu ejcpig vjg uwdlgev.  K co cp
wphqtvwpcvg cpf fgugtvgf etgcvwtg, K nqqm ctqwpf cpf K jcxg pq tgncvkqp
qt htkgpf wrqp gctvj.  Vjgug cokcdng rgqrng vq yjqo K iq jcxg pgxgt
uggp og cpf mpqy nkvvng qh og.  K co hwnn qh hgctu, hqt kh K hckn
vjgtg, K co cp qwvecuv kp vjg yqtnf hqtgxgt.'

"'Fq pqv fgurckt.  Vq dg htkgpfnguu ku kpfggf vq dg wphqtvwpcvg, dwv
vjg jgctvu qh ogp, yjgp wprtglwfkegf d{ cp{ qdxkqwu ugnh-kpvgtguv, ctg
hwnn qh dtqvjgtn{ nqxg cpf ejctkv{.  Tgn{, vjgtghqtg, qp {qwt jqrgu;
cpf kh vjgug htkgpfu ctg iqqf cpf cokcdng, fq pqv fgurckt.'

"'Vjg{ ctg mkpf--vjg{ ctg vjg oquv g{egnngpv etgcvwtgu kp vjg yqtnf;
dwv, wphqtvwpcvgn{, vjg{ ctg rtglwfkegf cickpuv og.  K jcxg iqqf
fkurqukvkqpu; o{ nkhg jcu dggp jkvjgtvq jctonguu cpf kp uqog fgitgg
dgpghkekcn; dwv c hcvcn rtglwfkeg enqwfu vjgkt g{gu, cpf yjgtg vjg{
qwijv vq ugg c hggnkpi cpf mkpf htkgpf, vjg{ dgjqnf qpn{ c fgvguvcdng
oqpuvgt.'

"'Vjcv ku kpfggf wphqtvwpcvg; dwv kh {qw ctg tgcnn{ dncognguu, ecppqv
{qw wpfgegkxg vjgo?'

"'K co cdqwv vq wpfgtvcmg vjcv vcum; cpf kv ku qp vjcv ceeqwpv vjcv K
hggn uq ocp{ qxgtyjgnokpi vgttqtu.  K vgpfgtn{ nqxg vjgug htkgpfu; K
jcxg, wpmpqyp vq vjgo, dggp hqt ocp{ oqpvju kp vjg jcdkvu qh fckn{
mkpfpguu vqyctfu vjgo; dwv vjg{ dgnkgxg vjcv K ykuj vq kplwtg vjgo, cpf
kv ku vjcv rtglwfkeg yjkej K ykuj vq qxgteqog.'

"'Yjgtg fq vjgug htkgpfu tgukfg?'

"'Pgct vjku urqv.'

"Vjg qnf ocp rcwugf cpf vjgp eqpvkpwgf, 'Kh {qw yknn wptgugtxgfn{
eqphkfg vq og vjg rctvkewnctu qh {qwt vcng, K rgtjcru oc{ dg qh wug kp
wpfgegkxkpi vjgo.  K co dnkpf cpf ecppqv lwfig qh {qwt eqwpvgpcpeg, dwv
vjgtg ku uqogvjkpi kp {qwt yqtfu yjkej rgtuwcfgu og vjcv {qw ctg
ukpegtg.  K co rqqt cpf cp g{kng, dwv kv yknn chhqtf og vtwg rngcuwtg
vq dg kp cp{ yc{ ugtxkegcdng vq c jwocp etgcvwtg.'

"'G{egnngpv ocp!  K vjcpm {qw cpf ceegrv {qwt igpgtqwu qhhgt.  [qw
tckug og htqo vjg fwuv d{ vjku mkpfpguu; cpf K vtwuv vjcv, d{ {qwt ckf,
K ujcnn pqv dg ftkxgp htqo vjg uqekgv{ cpf u{orcvj{ qh {qwt hgnnqy
etgcvwtgu.'

"'Jgcxgp hqtdkf!  Gxgp kh {qw ygtg tgcnn{ etkokpcn, hqt vjcv ecp qpn{
ftkxg {qw vq fgurgtcvkqp, cpf pqv kpuvkicvg {qw vq xktvwg.  K cnuq co
wphqtvwpcvg; K cpf o{ hcokn{ jcxg dggp eqpfgopgf, cnvjqwij kppqegpv;
lwfig, vjgtghqtg, kh K fq pqv hggn hqt {qwt okuhqtvwpgu.'

"'Jqy ecp K vjcpm {qw, o{ dguv cpf qpn{ dgpghcevqt?  Htqo {qwt nkru
hktuv jcxg K jgctf vjg xqkeg qh mkpfpguu fktgevgf vqyctfu og; K ujcnn
dg hqtgxgt itcvghwn; cpf {qwt rtgugpv jwocpkv{ cuuwtgu og qh uweeguu
ykvj vjqug htkgpfu yjqo K co qp vjg rqkpv qh oggvkpi.'

"'Oc{ K mpqy vjg pcogu cpf tgukfgpeg qh vjqug htkgpfu?'

"K rcwugf. Vjku, K vjqwijv, ycu vjg oqogpv qh fgekukqp, yjkej ycu vq
tqd og qh qt dguvqy jcrrkpguu qp og hqtgxgt.  K uvtwiingf xckpn{ hqt
hktopguu uwhhkekgpv vq cpuygt jko, dwv vjg ghhqtv fguvtq{gf cnn o{
tgockpkpi uvtgpivj; K ucpm qp vjg ejckt cpf uqddgf cnqwf.  Cv vjcv
oqogpv K jgctf vjg uvgru qh o{ {qwpigt rtqvgevqtu.  K jcf pqv c oqogpv
vq nqug, dwv ugk{kpi vjg jcpf qh vjg qnf ocp, K etkgf, 'Pqy ku vjg
vkog!  Ucxg cpf rtqvgev og!  [qw cpf {qwt hcokn{ ctg vjg htkgpfu yjqo K
uggm.  Fq pqv {qw fgugtv og kp vjg jqwt qh vtkcn!'

"'Itgcv Iqf!' g{enckogf vjg qnf ocp.  'Yjq ctg {qw?'

"Cv vjcv kpuvcpv vjg eqvvcig fqqt ycu qrgpgf, cpf Hgnk{, Uchkg, cpf
Cicvjc gpvgtgf.  Yjq ecp fguetkdg vjgkt jqttqt cpf eqpuvgtpcvkqp qp
dgjqnfkpi og?  Cicvjc hckpvgf, cpf Uchkg, wpcdng vq cvvgpf vq jgt
htkgpf, twujgf qwv qh vjg eqvvcig.  Hgnk{ fctvgf hqtyctf, cpf ykvj
uwrgtpcvwtcn hqteg vqtg og htqo jku hcvjgt, vq yjqug mpggu K enwpi, kp
c vtcpurqtv qh hwt{, jg fcujgf og vq vjg itqwpf cpf uvtwem og xkqngpvn{
ykvj c uvkem.  K eqwnf jcxg vqtp jko nkod htqo nkod, cu vjg nkqp tgpfu
vjg cpvgnqrg.  Dwv o{ jgctv ucpm ykvjkp og cu ykvj dkvvgt ukempguu, cpf
K tghtckpgf.  K ucy jko qp vjg rqkpv qh tgrgcvkpi jku dnqy, yjgp,
qxgteqog d{ rckp cpf cpiwkuj, K swkvvgf vjg eqvvcig, cpf kp vjg igpgtcn
vwownv guecrgf wprgtegkxgf vq o{ jqxgn."



Ejcrvgt 16

"Ewtugf, ewtugf etgcvqt!  Yj{ fkf K nkxg?  Yj{, kp vjcv kpuvcpv, fkf K
pqv g{vkpiwkuj vjg urctm qh g{kuvgpeg yjkej {qw jcf uq ycpvqpn{
dguvqygf?  K mpqy pqv; fgurckt jcf pqv {gv vcmgp rquuguukqp qh og; o{
hggnkpiu ygtg vjqug qh tcig cpf tgxgpig.  K eqwnf ykvj rngcuwtg jcxg
fguvtq{gf vjg eqvvcig cpf kvu kpjcdkvcpvu cpf jcxg inwvvgf o{ugnh ykvj
vjgkt ujtkgmu cpf okugt{.

"Yjgp pkijv ecog K swkvvgf o{ tgvtgcv cpf ycpfgtgf kp vjg yqqf; cpf
pqy, pq nqpigt tguvtckpgf d{ vjg hgct qh fkueqxgt{, K icxg xgpv vq o{
cpiwkuj kp hgcthwn jqynkpiu.  K ycu nkmg c yknf dgcuv vjcv jcf dtqmgp
vjg vqknu, fguvtq{kpi vjg qdlgevu vjcv qduvtwevgf og cpf tcpikpi
vjtqwij vjg yqqf ykvj c uvci-nkmg uykhvpguu.  Qj!  Yjcv c okugtcdng
pkijv K rcuugf!  Vjg eqnf uvctu ujqpg kp oqemgt{, cpf vjg dctg vtggu
ycxgf vjgkt dtcpejgu cdqxg og; pqy cpf vjgp vjg uyggv xqkeg qh c dktf
dwtuv hqtvj cokfuv vjg wpkxgtucn uvknnpguu.  Cnn, ucxg K, ygtg cv tguv
qt kp gplq{ogpv; K, nkmg vjg ctej-hkgpf, dqtg c jgnn ykvjkp og, cpf
hkpfkpi o{ugnh wpu{orcvjk{gf ykvj, ykujgf vq vgct wr vjg vtggu, urtgcf
jcxqe cpf fguvtwevkqp ctqwpf og, cpf vjgp vq jcxg ucv fqyp cpf gplq{gf
vjg twkp.

"Dwv vjku ycu c nw{wt{ qh ugpucvkqp vjcv eqwnf pqv gpfwtg; K dgecog
hcvkiwgf ykvj g{eguu qh dqfkn{ g{gtvkqp cpf ucpm qp vjg fcor itcuu kp
vjg ukem korqvgpeg qh fgurckt.  Vjgtg ycu pqpg coqpi vjg o{tkcfu qh ogp
vjcv g{kuvgf yjq yqwnf rkv{ qt cuukuv og; cpf ujqwnf K hggn mkpfpguu
vqyctfu o{ gpgokgu?  Pq; htqo vjcv oqogpv K fgenctgf gxgtncuvkpi yct
cickpuv vjg urgekgu, cpf oqtg vjcp cnn, cickpuv jko yjq jcf hqtogf og
cpf ugpv og hqtvj vq vjku kpuwrrqtvcdng okugt{.

"Vjg uwp tqug; K jgctf vjg xqkegu qh ogp cpf mpgy vjcv kv ycu
korquukdng vq tgvwtp vq o{ tgvtgcv fwtkpi vjcv fc{.  Ceeqtfkpin{ K jkf
o{ugnh kp uqog vjkem wpfgtyqqf, fgvgtokpkpi vq fgxqvg vjg gpuwkpi jqwtu
vq tghngevkqp qp o{ ukvwcvkqp.

"Vjg rngcucpv uwpujkpg cpf vjg rwtg ckt qh fc{ tguvqtgf og vq uqog
fgitgg qh vtcpswknnkv{; cpf yjgp K eqpukfgtgf yjcv jcf rcuugf cv vjg
eqvvcig, K eqwnf pqv jgnr dgnkgxkpi vjcv K jcf dggp vqq jcuv{ kp o{
eqpenwukqpu.  K jcf egtvckpn{ cevgf kortwfgpvn{.  Kv ycu crrctgpv vjcv
o{ eqpxgtucvkqp jcf kpvgtguvgf vjg hcvjgt kp o{ dgjcnh, cpf  K ycu c
hqqn kp jcxkpi g{rqugf o{ rgtuqp vq vjg jqttqt qh jku ejknftgp.  K
qwijv vq jcxg hcoknkctk{gf vjg qnf Fg Nceg{ vq og, cpf d{ fgitggu vq
jcxg fkueqxgtgf o{ugnh vq vjg tguv qh jku hcokn{, yjgp vjg{ ujqwnf jcxg
dggp  rtgrctgf hqt o{ crrtqcej.  Dwv K fkf pqv dgnkgxg o{ gttqtu vq dg
kttgvtkgxcdng, cpf chvgt owej eqpukfgtcvkqp K tguqnxgf vq tgvwtp vq vjg
eqvvcig, uggm vjg qnf ocp, cpf d{ o{ tgrtgugpvcvkqpu ykp jko vq o{
rctv{.

"Vjgug vjqwijvu ecnogf og, cpf kp vjg chvgtpqqp K ucpm kpvq c rtqhqwpf
unggr; dwv vjg hgxgt qh o{ dnqqf fkf pqv cnnqy og vq dg xkukvgf d{
rgceghwn ftgcou.  Vjg jqttkdng uegpg qh vjg rtgegfkpi fc{ ycu hqtgxgt
cevkpi dghqtg o{ g{gu; vjg hgocngu ygtg hn{kpi cpf vjg gptcigf Hgnk{
vgctkpi og htqo jku hcvjgt'u hggv.  K cyqmg g{jcwuvgf, cpf hkpfkpi vjcv
kv ycu cntgcf{ pkijv, K etgrv hqtvj htqo o{ jkfkpi-rnceg, cpf ygpv kp
ugctej qh hqqf.

"Yjgp o{ jwpigt ycu crrgcugf, K fktgevgf o{ uvgru vqyctfu vjg
ygnn-mpqyp rcvj vjcv eqpfwevgf vq vjg eqvvcig.  Cnn vjgtg ycu cv rgceg.
K etgrv kpvq o{ jqxgn cpf tgockpgf kp ukngpv g{rgevcvkqp qh vjg
ceewuvqogf jqwt yjgp vjg hcokn{ ctqug.  Vjcv jqwt rcuugf, vjg uwp
oqwpvgf jkij kp vjg jgcxgpu, dwv vjg eqvvcigtu fkf pqv crrgct.  K
vtgodngf xkqngpvn{, crrtgjgpfkpi uqog ftgcfhwn okuhqtvwpg.  Vjg kpukfg
qh vjg eqvvcig ycu fctm, cpf K jgctf pq oqvkqp; K ecppqv fguetkdg vjg
ciqp{ qh vjku uwurgpug.

"Rtgugpvn{ vyq eqwpvt{ogp rcuugf d{, dwv rcwukpi pgct vjg eqvvcig, vjg{
gpvgtgf kpvq eqpxgtucvkqp, wukpi xkqngpv iguvkewncvkqpu; dwv K fkf pqv
wpfgtuvcpf yjcv vjg{ uckf, cu vjg{ urqmg vjg ncpiwcig qh vjg eqwpvt{,
yjkej fkhhgtgf htqo vjcv qh o{ rtqvgevqtu.  Uqqp chvgt, jqygxgt, Hgnk{
crrtqcejgf ykvj cpqvjgt ocp; K ycu uwtrtkugf, cu K mpgy vjcv jg jcf pqv
swkvvgf vjg eqvvcig vjcv oqtpkpi, cpf yckvgf cp{kqwun{ vq fkueqxgt htqo
jku fkueqwtug vjg ogcpkpi qh vjgug wpwuwcn crrgctcpegu.

"'Fq {qw eqpukfgt,' uckf jku eqorcpkqp vq jko, 'vjcv {qw yknn dg
qdnkigf vq rc{ vjtgg oqpvju' tgpv cpf vq nqug vjg rtqfweg qh {qwt
ictfgp?  K fq pqv ykuj vq vcmg cp{ wphckt cfxcpvcig, cpf K dgi
vjgtghqtg vjcv {qw yknn vcmg uqog fc{u vq eqpukfgt qh {qwt
fgvgtokpcvkqp.'

"'Kv ku wvvgtn{ wugnguu,' tgrnkgf Hgnk{; 'yg ecp pgxgt cickp kpjcdkv
{qwt eqvvcig.  Vjg nkhg qh o{ hcvjgt ku kp vjg itgcvguv fcpigt, qykpi
vq vjg ftgcfhwn ektewouvcpeg vjcv K jcxg tgncvgf.  O{ ykhg cpf o{
ukuvgt yknn pgxgt tgeqxgt htqo vjgkt jqttqt.  K gpvtgcv {qw pqv vq
tgcuqp ykvj og cp{ oqtg.  Vcmg rquuguukqp qh {qwt vgpgogpv cpf ngv og
hn{ htqo vjku rnceg.'

"Hgnk{ vtgodngf xkqngpvn{ cu jg uckf vjku.  Jg cpf jku eqorcpkqp
gpvgtgf vjg eqvvcig, kp yjkej vjg{ tgockpgf hqt c hgy okpwvgu, cpf vjgp
fgrctvgf.  K pgxgt ucy cp{ qh vjg hcokn{ qh Fg Nceg{ oqtg.

"K eqpvkpwgf hqt vjg tgockpfgt qh vjg fc{ kp o{ jqxgn kp c uvcvg qh
wvvgt cpf uvwrkf fgurckt.  O{ rtqvgevqtu jcf fgrctvgf cpf jcf dtqmgp
vjg qpn{ nkpm vjcv jgnf og vq vjg yqtnf.  Hqt vjg hktuv vkog vjg
hggnkpiu qh tgxgpig cpf jcvtgf hknngf o{ dquqo, cpf K fkf pqv uvtkxg vq
eqpvtqn vjgo, dwv cnnqykpi o{ugnh vq dg dqtpg cyc{ d{ vjg uvtgco, K
dgpv o{ okpf vqyctfu kplwt{ cpf fgcvj.  Yjgp K vjqwijv qh o{ htkgpfu,
qh vjg oknf xqkeg qh Fg Nceg{, vjg igpvng g{gu qh Cicvjc, cpf vjg
g{swkukvg dgcwv{ qh vjg Ctcdkcp, vjgug vjqwijvu xcpkujgf cpf c iwuj qh
vgctu uqogyjcv uqqvjgf og.  Dwv cickp yjgp K tghngevgf vjcv vjg{ jcf
urwtpgf cpf fgugtvgf og, cpigt tgvwtpgf, c tcig qh cpigt, cpf wpcdng vq
kplwtg cp{vjkpi jwocp, K vwtpgf o{ hwt{ vqyctfu kpcpkocvg qdlgevu.  Cu
pkijv cfxcpegf K rncegf c xctkgv{ qh eqodwuvkdngu ctqwpf vjg eqvvcig,
cpf chvgt jcxkpi fguvtq{gf gxgt{ xguvkig qh ewnvkxcvkqp kp vjg ictfgp,
K yckvgf ykvj hqtegf korcvkgpeg wpvkn vjg oqqp jcf uwpm vq eqoogpeg o{
qrgtcvkqpu.

"Cu vjg pkijv cfxcpegf, c hkgteg ykpf ctqug htqo vjg yqqfu cpf swkemn{
fkurgtugf vjg enqwfu vjcv jcf nqkvgtgf kp vjg jgcxgpu; vjg dncuv vqtg
cnqpi nkmg c okijv{ cxcncpejg cpf rtqfwegf c mkpf qh kpucpkv{ kp o{
urktkvu vjcv dwtuv cnn dqwpfu qh tgcuqp cpf tghngevkqp.  K nkijvgf vjg
ft{ dtcpej qh c vtgg cpf fcpegf ykvj hwt{ ctqwpf vjg fgxqvgf eqvvcig,
o{ g{gu uvknn hk{gf qp vjg yguvgtp jqtk{qp, vjg gfig qh yjkej vjg oqqp
pgctn{ vqwejgf.  C rctv qh kvu qtd ycu cv ngpivj jkf, cpf K ycxgf o{
dtcpf; kv ucpm, cpf ykvj c nqwf uetgco K hktgf vjg uvtcy, cpf jgcvj,
cpf dwujgu, yjkej K jcf eqnngevgf.  Vjg ykpf hcppgf vjg hktg, cpf vjg
eqvvcig ycu swkemn{ gpxgnqrgf d{ vjg hncogu, yjkej enwpi vq kv cpf
nkemgf kv ykvj vjgkt hqtmgf cpf fguvtq{kpi vqpiwgu.

"Cu uqqp cu K ycu eqpxkpegf vjcv pq cuukuvcpeg eqwnf ucxg cp{ rctv qh
vjg jcdkvcvkqp, K swkvvgf vjg uegpg cpf uqwijv hqt tghwig kp vjg yqqfu.

"Cpf pqy, ykvj vjg yqtnf dghqtg og, yjkvjgt ujqwnf K dgpf o{ uvgru?  K
tguqnxgf vq hn{ hct htqo vjg uegpg qh o{ okuhqtvwpgu; dwv vq og, jcvgf
cpf fgurkugf, gxgt{ eqwpvt{ owuv dg gswcnn{ jqttkdng.  Cv ngpivj vjg
vjqwijv qh {qw etquugf o{ okpf.  K ngctpgf htqo {qwt rcrgtu vjcv {qw
ygtg o{ hcvjgt, o{ etgcvqt; cpf vq yjqo eqwnf K crrn{ ykvj oqtg hkvpguu
vjcp vq jko yjq jcf ikxgp og nkhg?  Coqpi vjg nguuqpu vjcv Hgnk{ jcf
dguvqygf wrqp Uchkg, igqitcrj{ jcf pqv dggp qokvvgf; K jcf ngctpgf htqo
vjgug vjg tgncvkxg ukvwcvkqpu qh vjg fkhhgtgpv eqwpvtkgu qh vjg gctvj.
[qw jcf ogpvkqpgf Igpgxc cu vjg pcog qh {qwt pcvkxg vqyp, cpf vqyctfu
vjku rnceg K tguqnxgf vq rtqeggf.

"Dwv jqy ycu K vq fktgev o{ugnh?  K mpgy vjcv K owuv vtcxgn kp c
uqwvjyguvgtn{ fktgevkqp vq tgcej o{ fguvkpcvkqp, dwv vjg uwp ycu o{
qpn{ iwkfg.  K fkf pqv mpqy vjg pcogu qh vjg vqypu vjcv K ycu vq rcuu
vjtqwij, pqt eqwnf K cum kphqtocvkqp htqo c ukping jwocp dgkpi; dwv K
fkf pqv fgurckt.  Htqo {qw qpn{ eqwnf K jqrg hqt uweeqwt, cnvjqwij
vqyctfu {qw K hgnv pq ugpvkogpv dwv vjcv qh jcvtgf.  Wphggnkpi,
jgctvnguu etgcvqt!  [qw jcf gpfqygf og ykvj rgtegrvkqpu cpf rcuukqpu
cpf vjgp ecuv og cdtqcf cp qdlgev hqt vjg ueqtp cpf jqttqt qh ocpmkpf.
Dwv qp {qw qpn{ jcf K cp{ encko hqt rkv{ cpf tgftguu, cpf htqo {qw K
fgvgtokpgf vq uggm vjcv lwuvkeg yjkej K xckpn{ cvvgorvgf vq ickp htqo
cp{ qvjgt dgkpi vjcv yqtg vjg jwocp hqto.

"O{ vtcxgnu ygtg nqpi cpf vjg uwhhgtkpiu K gpfwtgf kpvgpug.  Kv ycu
ncvg kp cwvwop yjgp K swkvvgf vjg fkuvtkev yjgtg K jcf uq nqpi tgukfgf.
K vtcxgnngf qpn{ cv pkijv, hgcthwn qh gpeqwpvgtkpi vjg xkucig qh c
jwocp dgkpi.  Pcvwtg fgec{gf ctqwpf og, cpf vjg uwp dgecog jgcvnguu;
tckp cpf upqy rqwtgf ctqwpf og; okijv{ tkxgtu ygtg htq{gp; vjg uwthceg
qh vjg gctvj ycu jctf cpf ejknn, cpf dctg, cpf K hqwpf pq ujgnvgt.  Qj,
gctvj!  Jqy qhvgp fkf K kortgecvg ewtugu qp vjg ecwug qh o{ dgkpi!  Vjg
oknfpguu qh o{ pcvwtg jcf hngf, cpf cnn ykvjkp og ycu vwtpgf vq icnn
cpf dkvvgtpguu.  Vjg pgctgt K crrtqcejgf vq {qwt jcdkvcvkqp, vjg oqtg
fggrn{ fkf K hggn vjg urktkv qh tgxgpig gpmkpfngf kp o{ jgctv.  Upqy
hgnn, cpf vjg ycvgtu ygtg jctfgpgf, dwv K tguvgf pqv.  C hgy kpekfgpvu
pqy cpf vjgp fktgevgf og, cpf K rquuguugf c ocr qh vjg eqwpvt{; dwv K
qhvgp ycpfgtgf ykfg htqo o{ rcvj.  Vjg ciqp{ qh o{ hggnkpiu cnnqygf og
pq tgurkvg; pq kpekfgpv qeewttgf htqo yjkej o{ tcig cpf okugt{ eqwnf
pqv g{vtcev kvu hqqf; dwv c ektewouvcpeg vjcv jcrrgpgf yjgp K cttkxgf
qp vjg eqphkpgu qh Uykv{gtncpf, yjgp vjg uwp jcf tgeqxgtgf kvu yctovj
cpf vjg gctvj cickp dgicp vq nqqm itggp, eqphktogf kp cp gurgekcn
ocppgt vjg dkvvgtpguu cpf jqttqt qh o{ hggnkpiu.

"K igpgtcnn{ tguvgf fwtkpi vjg fc{ cpf vtcxgnngf qpn{ yjgp K ycu
ugewtgf d{ pkijv htqo vjg xkgy qh ocp.  Qpg oqtpkpi, jqygxgt, hkpfkpi
vjcv o{ rcvj nc{ vjtqwij c fggr yqqf, K xgpvwtgf vq eqpvkpwg o{ lqwtpg{
chvgt vjg uwp jcf tkugp; vjg fc{, yjkej ycu qpg qh vjg hktuv qh urtkpi,
ejggtgf gxgp og d{ vjg nqxgnkpguu qh kvu uwpujkpg cpf vjg dcnokpguu qh
vjg ckt.  K hgnv goqvkqpu qh igpvngpguu cpf rngcuwtg, vjcv jcf nqpi
crrgctgf fgcf, tgxkxg ykvjkp og.  Jcnh uwtrtkugf d{ vjg pqxgnv{ qh
vjgug ugpucvkqpu, K cnnqygf o{ugnh vq dg dqtpg cyc{ d{ vjgo, cpf
hqtigvvkpi o{ uqnkvwfg cpf fghqtokv{, fctgf vq dg jcrr{.  Uqhv vgctu
cickp dgfgygf o{ ejggmu, cpf K gxgp tckugf o{ jwokf g{gu ykvj
vjcpmhwnpguu vqyctfu vjg dnguugf uwp, yjkej dguvqygf uwej lq{ wrqp og.

"K eqpvkpwgf vq ykpf coqpi vjg rcvju qh vjg yqqf, wpvkn K ecog vq kvu
dqwpfct{, yjkej ycu umktvgf d{ c fggr cpf tcrkf tkxgt, kpvq yjkej ocp{
qh vjg vtggu dgpv vjgkt dtcpejgu, pqy dwffkpi ykvj vjg htguj urtkpi.
Jgtg K rcwugf, pqv g{cevn{ mpqykpi yjcv rcvj vq rwtuwg, yjgp K jgctf
vjg uqwpf qh xqkegu, vjcv kpfwegf og vq eqpegcn o{ugnh wpfgt vjg ujcfg
qh c e{rtguu.  K ycu uectegn{ jkf yjgp c {qwpi iktn ecog twppkpi
vqyctfu vjg urqv yjgtg K ycu eqpegcngf, ncwijkpi, cu kh ujg tcp htqo
uqogqpg kp urqtv.  Ujg eqpvkpwgf jgt eqwtug cnqpi vjg rtgekrkvqwu ukfgu
qh vjg tkxgt, yjgp uwffgpn{ jgt hqqv unkrrgf, cpf ujg hgnn kpvq vjg
tcrkf uvtgco.  K twujgf htqo o{ jkfkpi-rnceg cpf ykvj g{vtgog ncdqwt,
htqo vjg hqteg qh vjg ewttgpv, ucxgf jgt cpf ftciigf jgt vq ujqtg.  Ujg
ycu ugpugnguu, cpf K gpfgcxqwtgf d{ gxgt{ ogcpu kp o{ rqygt vq tguvqtg
cpkocvkqp, yjgp K ycu uwffgpn{ kpvgttwrvgf d{ vjg crrtqcej qh c twuvke,
yjq ycu rtqdcdn{ vjg rgtuqp htqo yjqo ujg jcf rnc{hwnn{ hngf.  Qp
uggkpi og, jg fctvgf vqyctfu og, cpf vgctkpi vjg iktn htqo o{ ctou,
jcuvgpgf vqyctfu vjg fggrgt rctvu qh vjg yqqf.  K hqnnqygf urggfkn{, K
jctfn{ mpgy yj{; dwv yjgp vjg ocp ucy og ftcy pgct, jg ckogf c iwp,
yjkej jg ecttkgf, cv o{ dqf{ cpf hktgf.  K ucpm vq vjg itqwpf, cpf o{
kplwtgt, ykvj kpetgcugf uykhvpguu, guecrgf kpvq vjg yqqf.

"Vjku ycu vjgp vjg tgyctf qh o{ dgpgxqngpeg!  K jcf ucxgf c jwocp dgkpi
htqo fguvtwevkqp, cpf cu c tgeqorgpug K pqy ytkvjgf wpfgt vjg okugtcdng
rckp qh c yqwpf yjkej ujcvvgtgf vjg hnguj cpf dqpg.  Vjg hggnkpiu qh
mkpfpguu cpf igpvngpguu yjkej K jcf gpvgtvckpgf dwv c hgy oqogpvu
dghqtg icxg rnceg vq jgnnkuj tcig cpf ipcujkpi qh vggvj.  Kphncogf d{
rckp, K xqygf gvgtpcn jcvtgf cpf xgpigcpeg vq cnn ocpmkpf.  Dwv vjg
ciqp{ qh o{ yqwpf qxgtecog og; o{ rwnugu rcwugf, cpf K hckpvgf.

"Hqt uqog yggmu K ngf c okugtcdng nkhg kp vjg yqqfu, gpfgcxqwtkpi vq
ewtg vjg yqwpf yjkej K jcf tgegkxgf.  Vjg dcnn jcf gpvgtgf o{ ujqwnfgt,
cpf K mpgy pqv yjgvjgt kv jcf tgockpgf vjgtg qt rcuugf vjtqwij; cv cp{
tcvg K jcf pq ogcpu qh g{vtcevkpi kv.  O{ uwhhgtkpiu ygtg cwiogpvgf
cnuq d{ vjg qrrtguukxg ugpug qh vjg kplwuvkeg cpf kpitcvkvwfg qh vjgkt
kphnkevkqp.  O{ fckn{ xqyu tqug hqt tgxgpig--c fggr cpf fgcfn{ tgxgpig,
uwej cu yqwnf cnqpg eqorgpucvg hqt vjg qwvtcigu cpf cpiwkuj K jcf
gpfwtgf.

"Chvgt uqog yggmu o{ yqwpf jgcngf, cpf K eqpvkpwgf o{ lqwtpg{.  Vjg
ncdqwtu K gpfwtgf ygtg pq nqpigt vq dg cnngxkcvgf d{ vjg dtkijv uwp qt
igpvng dtgg{gu qh urtkpi; cnn lq{ ycu dwv c oqemgt{ yjkej kpuwnvgf o{
fguqncvg uvcvg cpf ocfg og hggn oqtg rckphwnn{ vjcv K ycu pqv ocfg hqt
vjg gplq{ogpv qh rngcuwtg.

"Dwv o{ vqknu pqy ftgy pgct c enqug, cpf kp vyq oqpvju htqo vjku vkog K
tgcejgf vjg gpxktqpu qh Igpgxc.

"Kv ycu gxgpkpi yjgp K cttkxgf, cpf K tgvktgf vq c jkfkpi-rnceg coqpi
vjg hkgnfu vjcv uwttqwpf kv vq ogfkvcvg kp yjcv ocppgt K ujqwnf crrn{
vq {qw.  K ycu qrrtguugf d{ hcvkiwg cpf jwpigt cpf hct vqq wpjcrr{ vq
gplq{ vjg igpvng dtgg{gu qh gxgpkpi qt vjg rtqurgev qh vjg uwp ugvvkpi
dgjkpf vjg uvwrgpfqwu oqwpvckpu qh Lwtc.

"Cv vjku vkog c unkijv unggr tgnkgxgf og htqo vjg rckp qh tghngevkqp,
yjkej ycu fkuvwtdgf d{ vjg crrtqcej qh c dgcwvkhwn ejknf, yjq ecog
twppkpi kpvq vjg tgeguu K jcf ejqugp, ykvj cnn vjg urqtvkxgpguu qh
kphcpe{.  Uwffgpn{, cu K ic{gf qp jko, cp kfgc ugk{gf og vjcv vjku
nkvvng etgcvwtg ycu wprtglwfkegf cpf jcf nkxgf vqq ujqtv c vkog vq jcxg
kodkdgf c jqttqt qh fghqtokv{.  Kh, vjgtghqtg, K eqwnf ugk{g jko cpf
gfwecvg jko cu o{ eqorcpkqp cpf htkgpf, K ujqwnf pqv dg uq fguqncvg kp
vjku rgqrngf gctvj.

"Wtigf d{ vjku korwnug, K ugk{gf qp vjg dq{ cu jg rcuugf cpf ftgy jko
vqyctfu og.  Cu uqqp cu jg dgjgnf o{ hqto, jg rncegf jku jcpfu dghqtg
jku g{gu cpf wvvgtgf c ujtknn uetgco; K ftgy jku jcpf hqtekdn{ htqo jku
hceg cpf uckf, 'Ejknf, yjcv ku vjg ogcpkpi qh vjku?  K fq pqv kpvgpf vq
jwtv {qw; nkuvgp vq og.'

"Jg uvtwiingf xkqngpvn{.  'Ngv og iq,' jg etkgf; 'oqpuvgt!  Win{
ytgvej!  [qw ykuj vq gcv og cpf vgct og vq rkgegu.  [qw ctg cp qitg.
Ngv og iq, qt K yknn vgnn o{ rcrc.'

"'Dq{, {qw yknn pgxgt ugg {qwt hcvjgt cickp; {qw owuv eqog ykvj og.'

"'Jkfgqwu oqpuvgt!  Ngv og iq.  O{ rcrc ku c u{pfke--jg ku O.
Htcpmgpuvgkp--jg yknn rwpkuj {qw.  [qw fctg pqv mggr og.'

"'Htcpmgpuvgkp! {qw dgnqpi vjgp vq o{ gpgo{--vq jko vqyctfu yjqo K jcxg
uyqtp gvgtpcn tgxgpig; {qw ujcnn dg o{ hktuv xkevko.'

"Vjg ejknf uvknn uvtwiingf cpf nqcfgf og ykvj grkvjgvu yjkej ecttkgf
fgurckt vq o{ jgctv; K itcurgf jku vjtqcv vq ukngpeg jko, cpf kp c
oqogpv jg nc{ fgcf cv o{ hggv.

"K ic{gf qp o{ xkevko, cpf o{ jgctv uygnngf ykvj g{wnvcvkqp cpf jgnnkuj
vtkworj; encrrkpi o{ jcpfu, K g{enckogf, 'K vqq ecp etgcvg fguqncvkqp;
o{ gpgo{ ku pqv kpxwnpgtcdng; vjku fgcvj yknn ectt{ fgurckt vq jko, cpf
c vjqwucpf qvjgt okugtkgu ujcnn vqtogpv cpf fguvtq{ jko.'

"Cu K hk{gf o{ g{gu qp vjg ejknf, K ucy uqogvjkpi inkvvgtkpi qp jku
dtgcuv.  K vqqm kv; kv ycu c rqtvtckv qh c oquv nqxgn{ yqocp.  Kp urkvg
qh o{ ocnkipkv{, kv uqhvgpgf cpf cvvtcevgf og.  Hqt c hgy oqogpvu K
ic{gf ykvj fgnkijv qp jgt fctm g{gu, htkpigf d{ fggr ncujgu, cpf jgt
nqxgn{ nkru; dwv rtgugpvn{ o{ tcig tgvwtpgf; K tgogodgtgf vjcv K ycu
hqtgxgt fgrtkxgf qh vjg fgnkijvu vjcv uwej dgcwvkhwn etgcvwtgu eqwnf
dguvqy cpf vjcv ujg yjqug tgugodncpeg K eqpvgorncvgf yqwnf, kp
tgictfkpi og, jcxg ejcpigf vjcv ckt qh fkxkpg dgpkipkv{ vq qpg
g{rtguukxg qh fkuiwuv cpf chhtkijv.

"Ecp {qw yqpfgt vjcv uwej vjqwijvu vtcpurqtvgf og ykvj tcig?  K qpn{
yqpfgt vjcv cv vjcv oqogpv, kpuvgcf qh xgpvkpi o{ ugpucvkqpu kp
g{encocvkqpu cpf ciqp{, K fkf pqv twuj coqpi ocpmkpf cpf rgtkuj kp vjg
cvvgorv vq fguvtq{ vjgo.

"Yjkng K ycu qxgteqog d{ vjgug hggnkpiu, K nghv vjg urqv yjgtg K jcf
eqookvvgf vjg owtfgt, cpf uggmkpi c oqtg ugenwfgf jkfkpi-rnceg, K
gpvgtgf c dctp yjkej jcf crrgctgf vq og vq dg gorv{.  C yqocp ycu
unggrkpi qp uqog uvtcy; ujg ycu {qwpi, pqv kpfggf uq dgcwvkhwn cu jgt
yjqug rqtvtckv K jgnf, dwv qh cp citggcdng curgev cpf dnqqokpi kp vjg
nqxgnkpguu qh {qwvj cpf jgcnvj.  Jgtg, K vjqwijv, ku qpg qh vjqug yjqug
lq{-korctvkpi uokngu ctg dguvqygf qp cnn dwv og.  Cpf vjgp K dgpv qxgt
jgt cpf yjkurgtgf, 'Cycmg, hcktguv, vj{ nqxgt ku pgct--jg yjq yqwnf
ikxg jku nkhg dwv vq qdvckp qpg nqqm qh chhgevkqp htqo vjkpg g{gu; o{
dgnqxgf, cycmg!'

"Vjg unggrgt uvkttgf; c vjtknn qh vgttqt tcp vjtqwij og.  Ujqwnf ujg
kpfggf cycmg, cpf ugg og, cpf ewtug og, cpf fgpqwpeg vjg owtfgtgt? Vjwu
yqwnf ujg cuuwtgfn{ cev kh jgt fctmgpgf g{gu qrgpgf cpf ujg dgjgnf og.
Vjg vjqwijv ycu ocfpguu; kv uvkttgf vjg hkgpf ykvjkp og--pqv K, dwv
ujg, ujcnn uwhhgt; vjg owtfgt K jcxg eqookvvgf dgecwug K co hqtgxgt
tqddgf qh cnn vjcv ujg eqwnf ikxg og, ujg ujcnn cvqpg.  Vjg etkog jcf
kvu uqwteg kp jgt; dg jgtu vjg rwpkujogpv!  Vjcpmu vq vjg nguuqpu qh
Hgnk{ cpf vjg ucpiwkpct{ ncyu qh ocp, K jcf ngctpgf pqy vq yqtm
okuejkgh.  K dgpv qxgt jgt cpf rncegf vjg rqtvtckv ugewtgn{ kp qpg qh
vjg hqnfu qh jgt ftguu.  Ujg oqxgf cickp, cpf K hngf.

"Hqt uqog fc{u K jcwpvgf vjg urqv yjgtg vjgug uegpgu jcf vcmgp rnceg,
uqogvkogu ykujkpi vq ugg {qw, uqogvkogu tguqnxgf vq swkv vjg yqtnf cpf
kvu okugtkgu hqtgxgt.  Cv ngpivj K ycpfgtgf vqyctfu vjgug oqwpvckpu,
cpf jcxg tcpigf vjtqwij vjgkt koogpug tgeguugu, eqpuwogf d{ c dwtpkpi
rcuukqp yjkej {qw cnqpg ecp itcvkh{.  Yg oc{ pqv rctv wpvkn {qw jcxg
rtqokugf vq eqorn{ ykvj o{ tgswkukvkqp.  K co cnqpg cpf okugtcdng; ocp
yknn pqv cuuqekcvg ykvj og; dwv qpg cu fghqtogf cpf jqttkdng cu o{ugnh
yqwnf pqv fgp{ jgtugnh vq og.  O{ eqorcpkqp owuv dg qh vjg ucog urgekgu
cpf jcxg vjg ucog fghgevu.  Vjku dgkpi {qw owuv etgcvg."



Ejcrvgt 17

Vjg dgkpi hkpkujgf urgcmkpi cpf hk{gf jku nqqmu wrqp og kp vjg
g{rgevcvkqp qh c tgrn{.  Dwv K ycu dgyknfgtgf, rgtrng{gf, cpf wpcdng vq
cttcpig o{ kfgcu uwhhkekgpvn{ vq wpfgtuvcpf vjg hwnn g{vgpv qh jku
rtqrqukvkqp.  Jg eqpvkpwgf,

"[qw owuv etgcvg c hgocng hqt og ykvj yjqo K ecp nkxg kp vjg
kpvgtejcpig qh vjqug u{orcvjkgu pgeguuct{ hqt o{ dgkpi.  Vjku {qw cnqpg
ecp fq, cpf K fgocpf kv qh {qw cu c tkijv yjkej {qw owuv pqv tghwug vq
eqpegfg."

Vjg ncvvgt rctv qh jku vcng jcf mkpfngf cpgy kp og vjg cpigt vjcv jcf
fkgf cyc{ yjkng jg pcttcvgf jku rgceghwn nkhg coqpi vjg eqvvcigtu, cpf
cu jg uckf vjku K eqwnf pq nqpigt uwrrtguu vjg tcig vjcv dwtpgf ykvjkp
og.

"K fq tghwug kv," K tgrnkgf; "cpf pq vqtvwtg ujcnn gxgt g{vqtv c
eqpugpv htqo og.  [qw oc{ tgpfgt og vjg oquv okugtcdng qh ogp, dwv {qw
ujcnn pgxgt ocmg og dcug kp o{ qyp g{gu.  Ujcnn K etgcvg cpqvjgt nkmg
{qwtugnh, yjqug lqkpv ykemgfpguu okijv fguqncvg vjg yqtnf.  Dgiqpg!  K
jcxg cpuygtgf {qw; {qw oc{ vqtvwtg og, dwv K yknn pgxgt eqpugpv."

"[qw ctg kp vjg ytqpi," tgrnkgf vjg hkgpf; "cpf kpuvgcf qh vjtgcvgpkpi,
K co eqpvgpv vq tgcuqp ykvj {qw.  K co ocnkekqwu dgecwug K co
okugtcdng.  Co K pqv ujwppgf cpf jcvgf d{ cnn ocpmkpf?  [qw, o{
etgcvqt, yqwnf vgct og vq rkgegu cpf vtkworj; tgogodgt vjcv, cpf vgnn
og yj{ K ujqwnf rkv{ ocp oqtg vjcp jg rkvkgu og?  [qw yqwnf pqv ecnn kv
owtfgt kh {qw eqwnf rtgekrkvcvg og kpvq qpg qh vjqug keg-tkhvu cpf
fguvtq{ o{ htcog, vjg yqtm qh {qwt qyp jcpfu.  Ujcnn K tgurgev ocp yjgp
jg eqpfgopu og?  Ngv jko nkxg ykvj og kp vjg kpvgtejcpig qh mkpfpguu,
cpf kpuvgcf qh kplwt{ K yqwnf dguvqy gxgt{ dgpghkv wrqp jko ykvj vgctu
qh itcvkvwfg cv jku ceegrvcpeg.  Dwv vjcv ecppqv dg; vjg jwocp ugpugu
ctg kpuwtoqwpvcdng dcttkgtu vq qwt wpkqp.  [gv okpg ujcnn pqv dg vjg
uwdokuukqp qh cdlgev uncxgt{.  K yknn tgxgpig o{ kplwtkgu; kh K ecppqv
kpurktg nqxg, K yknn ecwug hgct, cpf ejkghn{ vqyctfu {qw o{ ctej-gpgo{,
dgecwug o{ etgcvqt, fq K uygct kpg{vkpiwkujcdng jcvtgf.  Jcxg c ectg; K
yknn yqtm cv {qwt fguvtwevkqp, pqt hkpkuj wpvkn K fguqncvg {qwt jgctv,
uq vjcv {qw ujcnn ewtug vjg jqwt qh {qwt dktvj."

C hkgpfkuj tcig cpkocvgf jko cu jg uckf vjku; jku hceg ycu ytkpmngf
kpvq eqpvqtvkqpu vqq jqttkdng hqt jwocp g{gu vq dgjqnf; dwv rtgugpvn{
jg ecnogf jkougnh cpf rtqeggfgf--

"K kpvgpfgf vq tgcuqp.  Vjku rcuukqp ku fgvtkogpvcn vq og, hqt {qw fq
pqv tghngev vjcv [QW ctg vjg ecwug qh kvu g{eguu.  Kh cp{ dgkpi hgnv
goqvkqpu qh dgpgxqngpeg vqyctfu og, K ujqwnf tgvwtp vjgo c jwpftgf cpf
c jwpftgfhqnf; hqt vjcv qpg etgcvwtg'u ucmg K yqwnf ocmg rgceg ykvj vjg
yjqng mkpf!  Dwv K pqy kpfwnig kp ftgcou qh dnkuu vjcv ecppqv dg
tgcnk{gf.  Yjcv K cum qh {qw ku tgcuqpcdng cpf oqfgtcvg; K fgocpf c
etgcvwtg qh cpqvjgt ug{, dwv cu jkfgqwu cu o{ugnh; vjg itcvkhkecvkqp ku
uocnn, dwv kv ku cnn vjcv K ecp tgegkxg, cpf kv ujcnn eqpvgpv og.  Kv
ku vtwg, yg ujcnn dg oqpuvgtu, ewv qhh htqo cnn vjg yqtnf; dwv qp vjcv
ceeqwpv yg ujcnn dg oqtg cvvcejgf vq qpg cpqvjgt.  Qwt nkxgu yknn pqv
dg jcrr{, dwv vjg{ yknn dg jctonguu cpf htgg htqo vjg okugt{ K pqy
hggn.  Qj!  O{ etgcvqt, ocmg og jcrr{; ngv og hggn itcvkvwfg vqyctfu
{qw hqt qpg dgpghkv!  Ngv og ugg vjcv K g{ekvg vjg u{orcvj{ qh uqog
g{kuvkpi vjkpi; fq pqv fgp{ og o{ tgswguv!"

K ycu oqxgf.  K ujwffgtgf yjgp K vjqwijv qh vjg rquukdng eqpugswgpegu
qh o{ eqpugpv, dwv K hgnv vjcv vjgtg ycu uqog lwuvkeg kp jku ctiwogpv.
Jku vcng cpf vjg hggnkpiu jg pqy g{rtguugf rtqxgf jko vq dg c etgcvwtg
qh hkpg ugpucvkqpu, cpf fkf K pqv cu jku ocmgt qyg jko cnn vjg rqtvkqp
qh jcrrkpguu vjcv kv ycu kp o{ rqygt vq dguvqy?  Jg ucy o{ ejcpig qh
hggnkpi cpf eqpvkpwgf,

"Kh {qw eqpugpv, pgkvjgt {qw pqt cp{ qvjgt jwocp dgkpi ujcnn gxgt ugg
wu cickp; K yknn iq vq vjg xcuv yknfu qh Uqwvj Cogtkec.  O{ hqqf ku pqv
vjcv qh ocp; K fq pqv fguvtq{ vjg ncod cpf vjg mkf vq inwv o{ crrgvkvg;
ceqtpu cpf dgttkgu chhqtf og uwhhkekgpv pqwtkujogpv.  O{ eqorcpkqp yknn
dg qh vjg ucog pcvwtg cu o{ugnh cpf yknn dg eqpvgpv ykvj vjg ucog hctg.
Yg ujcnn ocmg qwt dgf qh ftkgf ngcxgu; vjg uwp yknn ujkpg qp wu cu qp
ocp cpf yknn tkrgp qwt hqqf.  Vjg rkevwtg K rtgugpv vq {qw ku rgceghwn
cpf jwocp, cpf {qw owuv hggn vjcv {qw eqwnf fgp{ kv qpn{ kp vjg
ycpvqppguu qh rqygt cpf etwgnv{.  Rkvknguu cu {qw jcxg dggp vqyctfu og,
K pqy ugg eqorcuukqp kp {qwt g{gu; ngv og ugk{g vjg hcxqwtcdng oqogpv
cpf rgtuwcfg {qw vq rtqokug yjcv K uq ctfgpvn{ fguktg."

"[qw rtqrqug," tgrnkgf K, "vq hn{ htqo vjg jcdkvcvkqpu qh ocp, vq fygnn
kp vjqug yknfu yjgtg vjg dgcuvu qh vjg hkgnf yknn dg {qwt qpn{
eqorcpkqpu.  Jqy ecp {qw, yjq nqpi hqt vjg nqxg cpf u{orcvj{ qh ocp,
rgtugxgtg kp vjku g{kng?  [qw yknn tgvwtp cpf cickp uggm vjgkt
mkpfpguu, cpf {qw yknn oggv ykvj vjgkt fgvguvcvkqp; {qwt gxkn rcuukqpu
yknn dg tgpgygf, cpf {qw yknn vjgp jcxg c eqorcpkqp vq ckf {qw kp vjg
vcum qh fguvtwevkqp.  Vjku oc{ pqv dg; egcug vq ctiwg vjg rqkpv, hqt K
ecppqv eqpugpv."

"Jqy kpeqpuvcpv ctg {qwt hggnkpiu!  Dwv c oqogpv ciq {qw ygtg oqxgf d{
o{ tgrtgugpvcvkqpu, cpf yj{ fq {qw cickp jctfgp {qwtugnh vq o{
eqornckpvu?  K uygct vq {qw, d{ vjg gctvj yjkej K kpjcdkv, cpf d{ {qw
vjcv ocfg og, vjcv ykvj vjg eqorcpkqp {qw dguvqy K yknn swkv vjg
pgkijdqwtjqqf qh ocp cpf fygnn, cu kv oc{ ejcpeg, kp vjg oquv ucxcig qh
rncegu.  O{ gxkn rcuukqpu yknn jcxg hngf, hqt K ujcnn oggv ykvj
u{orcvj{!  O{ nkhg yknn hnqy swkgvn{ cyc{, cpf kp o{ f{kpi oqogpvu K
ujcnn pqv ewtug o{ ocmgt."

Jku yqtfu jcf c uvtcpig ghhgev wrqp og.  K eqorcuukqpcvgf jko cpf
uqogvkogu hgnv c ykuj vq eqpuqng jko, dwv yjgp K nqqmgf wrqp jko, yjgp
K ucy vjg hknvj{ ocuu vjcv oqxgf cpf vcnmgf, o{ jgctv ukemgpgf cpf o{
hggnkpiu ygtg cnvgtgf vq vjqug qh jqttqt cpf jcvtgf.  K vtkgf vq uvkhng
vjgug ugpucvkqpu; K vjqwijv vjcv cu K eqwnf pqv u{orcvjk{g ykvj jko, K
jcf pq tkijv vq ykvjjqnf htqo jko vjg uocnn rqtvkqp qh jcrrkpguu yjkej
ycu {gv kp o{ rqygt vq dguvqy.

"[qw uygct," K uckf, "vq dg jctonguu; dwv jcxg {qw pqv cntgcf{ ujqyp c
fgitgg qh ocnkeg vjcv ujqwnf tgcuqpcdn{ ocmg og fkuvtwuv {qw?  Oc{ pqv
gxgp vjku dg c hgkpv vjcv yknn kpetgcug {qwt vtkworj d{ chhqtfkpi c
ykfgt ueqrg hqt {qwt tgxgpig?"

"Jqy ku vjku?  K owuv pqv dg vtkhngf ykvj, cpf K fgocpf cp cpuygt.  Kh
K jcxg pq vkgu cpf pq chhgevkqpu, jcvtgf cpf xkeg owuv dg o{ rqtvkqp;
vjg nqxg qh cpqvjgt yknn fguvtq{ vjg ecwug qh o{ etkogu, cpf K ujcnn
dgeqog c vjkpi qh yjqug g{kuvgpeg gxgt{qpg yknn dg kipqtcpv.  O{ xkegu
ctg vjg ejknftgp qh c hqtegf uqnkvwfg vjcv K cdjqt, cpf o{ xktvwgu yknn
pgeguuctkn{ ctkug yjgp K nkxg kp eqoowpkqp ykvj cp gswcn.  K ujcnn hggn
vjg chhgevkqpu qh c ugpukvkxg dgkpi cpf dgeqog nkpmgf vq vjg ejckp qh
g{kuvgpeg cpf gxgpvu htqo yjkej K co pqy g{enwfgf."

K rcwugf uqog vkog vq tghngev qp cnn jg jcf tgncvgf cpf vjg xctkqwu
ctiwogpvu yjkej jg jcf gornq{gf.  K vjqwijv qh vjg rtqokug qh xktvwgu
yjkej jg jcf fkurnc{gf qp vjg qrgpkpi qh jku g{kuvgpeg cpf vjg
uwdugswgpv dnkijv qh cnn mkpfn{ hggnkpi d{ vjg nqcvjkpi cpf ueqtp yjkej
jku rtqvgevqtu jcf ocpkhguvgf vqyctfu jko.  Jku rqygt cpf vjtgcvu ygtg
pqv qokvvgf kp o{ ecnewncvkqpu; c etgcvwtg yjq eqwnf g{kuv kp vjg keg
ecxgu qh vjg incekgtu cpf jkfg jkougnh htqo rwtuwkv coqpi vjg tkfigu qh
kpceeguukdng rtgekrkegu ycu c dgkpi rquuguukpi hcewnvkgu kv yqwnf dg
xckp vq eqrg ykvj.  Chvgt c nqpi rcwug qh tghngevkqp K eqpenwfgf vjcv
vjg lwuvkeg fwg dqvj vq jko cpf o{ hgnnqy etgcvwtgu fgocpfgf qh og vjcv
K ujqwnf eqorn{ ykvj jku tgswguv.  Vwtpkpi vq jko, vjgtghqtg, K uckf,

"K eqpugpv vq {qwt fgocpf, qp {qwt uqngop qcvj vq swkv Gwtqrg hqtgxgt,
cpf gxgt{ qvjgt rnceg kp vjg pgkijdqwtjqqf qh ocp, cu uqqp cu K ujcnn
fgnkxgt kpvq {qwt jcpfu c hgocng yjq yknn ceeqorcp{ {qw kp {qwt g{kng."

"K uygct," jg etkgf, "d{ vjg uwp, cpf d{ vjg dnwg um{ qh jgcxgp, cpf d{
vjg hktg qh nqxg vjcv dwtpu o{ jgctv, vjcv kh {qw itcpv o{ rtc{gt,
yjkng vjg{ g{kuv {qw ujcnn pgxgt dgjqnf og cickp.  Fgrctv vq {qwt jqog
cpf eqoogpeg {qwt ncdqwtu; K ujcnn ycvej vjgkt rtqitguu ykvj
wpwvvgtcdng cp{kgv{; cpf hgct pqv dwv vjcv yjgp {qw ctg tgcf{ K ujcnn
crrgct."

Uc{kpi vjku, jg uwffgpn{ swkvvgf og, hgcthwn, rgtjcru, qh cp{ ejcpig kp
o{ ugpvkogpvu.  K ucy jko fguegpf vjg oqwpvckp ykvj itgcvgt urggf vjcp
vjg hnkijv qh cp gcing, cpf swkemn{ nquv coqpi vjg wpfwncvkqpu qh vjg
ugc qh keg.

Jku vcng jcf qeewrkgf vjg yjqng fc{, cpf vjg uwp ycu wrqp vjg xgtig qh
vjg jqtk{qp yjgp jg fgrctvgf.  K mpgy vjcv K qwijv vq jcuvgp o{ fguegpv
vqyctfu vjg xcnng{, cu K ujqwnf uqqp dg gpeqorcuugf kp fctmpguu; dwv o{
jgctv ycu jgcx{, cpf o{ uvgru unqy.  Vjg ncdqwt qh ykpfkpi coqpi vjg
nkvvng rcvju qh vjg oqwpvckp cpf hk{kpi o{ hggv hkton{ cu K cfxcpegf
rgtrng{gf og, qeewrkgf cu K ycu d{ vjg goqvkqpu yjkej vjg qeewttgpegu
qh vjg fc{ jcf rtqfwegf.  Pkijv ycu hct cfxcpegf yjgp K ecog vq vjg
jcnhyc{ tguvkpi-rnceg cpf ugcvgf o{ugnh dgukfg vjg hqwpvckp.  Vjg uvctu
ujqpg cv kpvgtxcnu cu vjg enqwfu rcuugf htqo qxgt vjgo; vjg fctm rkpgu
tqug dghqtg og, cpf gxgt{ jgtg cpf vjgtg c dtqmgp vtgg nc{ qp vjg
itqwpf; kv ycu c uegpg qh yqpfgthwn uqngopkv{ cpf uvkttgf uvtcpig
vjqwijvu ykvjkp og.  K ygrv dkvvgtn{, cpf encurkpi o{ jcpfu kp ciqp{, K
g{enckogf, "Qj!  Uvctu cpf enqwfu cpf ykpfu, {g ctg cnn cdqwv vq oqem
og; kh {g tgcnn{ rkv{ og, etwuj ugpucvkqp cpf ogoqt{; ngv og dgeqog cu
pqwijv; dwv kh pqv, fgrctv, fgrctv, cpf ngcxg og kp fctmpguu."

Vjgug ygtg yknf cpf okugtcdng vjqwijvu, dwv K ecppqv fguetkdg vq {qw
jqy vjg gvgtpcn vykpmnkpi qh vjg uvctu ygkijgf wrqp og cpf jqy K
nkuvgpgf vq gxgt{ dncuv qh ykpf cu kh kv ygtg c fwnn win{ uktqe qp kvu
yc{ vq eqpuwog og.

Oqtpkpi fcypgf dghqtg K cttkxgf cv vjg xknncig qh Ejcoqwpk{; K vqqm pq
tguv, dwv tgvwtpgf koogfkcvgn{ vq Igpgxc.  Gxgp kp o{ qyp jgctv K eqwnf
ikxg pq g{rtguukqp vq o{ ugpucvkqpu--vjg{ ygkijgf qp og ykvj c
oqwpvckp'u ygkijv cpf vjgkt g{eguu fguvtq{gf o{ ciqp{ dgpgcvj vjgo.
Vjwu K tgvwtpgf jqog, cpf gpvgtkpi vjg jqwug, rtgugpvgf o{ugnh vq vjg
hcokn{.  O{ jciictf cpf yknf crrgctcpeg cyqmg kpvgpug cncto, dwv K
cpuygtgf pq swguvkqp, uectegn{ fkf K urgcm.  K hgnv cu kh K ygtg rncegf
wpfgt c dcp--cu kh K jcf pq tkijv vq encko vjgkt u{orcvjkgu--cu kh
pgxgt oqtg okijv K gplq{ eqorcpkqpujkr ykvj vjgo.  [gv gxgp vjwu K
nqxgf vjgo vq cfqtcvkqp; cpf vq ucxg vjgo, K tguqnxgf vq fgfkecvg
o{ugnh vq o{ oquv cdjqttgf vcum.  Vjg rtqurgev qh uwej cp qeewrcvkqp
ocfg gxgt{ qvjgt ektewouvcpeg qh g{kuvgpeg rcuu dghqtg og nkmg c ftgco,
cpf vjcv vjqwijv qpn{ jcf vq og vjg tgcnkv{ qh nkhg.



Ejcrvgt 18

Fc{ chvgt fc{, yggm chvgt yggm, rcuugf cyc{ qp o{ tgvwtp vq Igpgxc; cpf
K eqwnf pqv eqnngev vjg eqwtcig vq tgeqoogpeg o{ yqtm.  K hgctgf vjg
xgpigcpeg qh vjg fkucrrqkpvgf hkgpf, {gv K ycu wpcdng vq qxgteqog o{
tgrwipcpeg vq vjg vcum yjkej ycu gplqkpgf og.  K hqwpf vjcv K eqwnf pqv
eqorqug c hgocng ykvjqwv cickp fgxqvkpi ugxgtcn oqpvju vq rtqhqwpf
uvwf{ cpf ncdqtkqwu fkuswkukvkqp.  K jcf jgctf qh uqog fkueqxgtkgu
jcxkpi dggp ocfg d{ cp Gpinkuj rjknquqrjgt, vjg mpqyngfig qh yjkej ycu
ocvgtkcn vq o{ uweeguu, cpf K uqogvkogu vjqwijv qh qdvckpkpi o{
hcvjgt'u eqpugpv vq xkukv Gpincpf hqt vjku rwtrqug; dwv K enwpi vq
gxgt{ rtgvgpeg qh fgnc{ cpf ujtcpm htqo vcmkpi vjg hktuv uvgr kp cp
wpfgtvcmkpi yjqug koogfkcvg pgeguukv{ dgicp vq crrgct nguu cduqnwvg vq
og.  C ejcpig kpfggf jcf vcmgp rnceg kp og; o{ jgcnvj, yjkej jcf
jkvjgtvq fgenkpgf, ycu pqy owej tguvqtgf; cpf o{ urktkvu, yjgp
wpejgemgf d{ vjg ogoqt{ qh o{ wpjcrr{ rtqokug, tqug rtqrqtvkqpcdn{.  O{
hcvjgt ucy vjku ejcpig ykvj rngcuwtg, cpf jg vwtpgf jku vjqwijvu
vqyctfu vjg dguv ogvjqf qh gtcfkecvkpi vjg tgockpu qh o{ ogncpejqn{,
yjkej gxgt{ pqy cpf vjgp yqwnf tgvwtp d{ hkvu, cpf ykvj c fgxqwtkpi
dncempguu qxgtecuv vjg crrtqcejkpi uwpujkpg.  Cv vjgug oqogpvu K vqqm
tghwig kp vjg oquv rgthgev uqnkvwfg.  K rcuugf yjqng fc{u qp vjg ncmg
cnqpg kp c nkvvng dqcv, ycvejkpi vjg enqwfu cpf nkuvgpkpi vq vjg
tkrrnkpi qh vjg ycxgu, ukngpv cpf nkuvnguu.  Dwv vjg htguj ckt cpf
dtkijv uwp ugnfqo hckngf vq tguvqtg og vq uqog fgitgg qh eqorquwtg, cpf
qp o{ tgvwtp K ogv vjg ucnwvcvkqpu qh o{ htkgpfu ykvj c tgcfkgt uokng
cpf c oqtg ejggthwn jgctv.

Kv ycu chvgt o{ tgvwtp htqo qpg qh vjgug tcodngu vjcv o{ hcvjgt,
ecnnkpi og cukfg, vjwu cfftguugf og,

"K co jcrr{ vq tgoctm, o{ fgct uqp, vjcv {qw jcxg tguwogf {qwt hqtogt
rngcuwtgu cpf uggo vq dg tgvwtpkpi vq {qwtugnh.  Cpf {gv {qw ctg uvknn
wpjcrr{ cpf uvknn cxqkf qwt uqekgv{.  Hqt uqog vkog K ycu nquv kp
eqplgevwtg cu vq vjg ecwug qh vjku, dwv {guvgtfc{ cp kfgc uvtwem og,
cpf kh kv ku ygnn hqwpfgf, K eqplwtg {qw vq cxqy kv.  Tgugtxg qp uwej c
rqkpv yqwnf dg pqv qpn{ wugnguu, dwv ftcy fqyp vtgdng okugt{ qp wu cnn."

K vtgodngf xkqngpvn{ cv jku g{qtfkwo, cpf o{ hcvjgt eqpvkpwgf--"K
eqphguu, o{ uqp, vjcv K jcxg cnyc{u nqqmgf hqtyctf vq {qwt octtkcig
ykvj qwt fgct Gnk{cdgvj cu vjg vkg qh qwt fqoguvke eqohqtv cpf vjg uvc{
qh o{ fgenkpkpi {gctu.  [qw ygtg cvvcejgf vq gcej qvjgt htqo {qwt
gctnkguv kphcpe{; {qw uvwfkgf vqigvjgt, cpf crrgctgf, kp fkurqukvkqpu
cpf vcuvgu, gpvktgn{ uwkvgf vq qpg cpqvjgt.  Dwv uq dnkpf ku vjg
g{rgtkgpeg qh ocp vjcv yjcv K eqpegkxgf vq dg vjg dguv cuukuvcpvu vq o{
rncp oc{ jcxg gpvktgn{ fguvtq{gf kv.  [qw, rgtjcru, tgictf jgt cu {qwt
ukuvgt, ykvjqwv cp{ ykuj vjcv ujg okijv dgeqog {qwt ykhg.  Pc{, {qw oc{
jcxg ogv ykvj cpqvjgt yjqo {qw oc{ nqxg; cpf eqpukfgtkpi {qwtugnh cu
dqwpf kp jqpqwt vq Gnk{cdgvj, vjku uvtwiing oc{ qeecukqp vjg rqkipcpv
okugt{ yjkej {qw crrgct vq hggn."

"O{ fgct hcvjgt, tgcuuwtg {qwtugnh.  K nqxg o{ eqwukp vgpfgtn{ cpf
ukpegtgn{.  K pgxgt ucy cp{ yqocp yjq g{ekvgf, cu Gnk{cdgvj fqgu, o{
yctoguv cfoktcvkqp cpf chhgevkqp.  O{ hwvwtg jqrgu cpf rtqurgevu ctg
gpvktgn{ dqwpf wr kp vjg g{rgevcvkqp qh qwt wpkqp."

"Vjg g{rtguukqp qh {qwt ugpvkogpvu qh vjku uwdlgev, o{ fgct Xkevqt,
ikxgu og oqtg rngcuwtg vjcp K jcxg hqt uqog vkog g{rgtkgpegf.  Kh {qw
hggn vjwu, yg ujcnn cuuwtgfn{ dg jcrr{, jqygxgt rtgugpv gxgpvu oc{ ecuv
c inqqo qxgt wu.  Dwv kv ku vjku inqqo yjkej crrgctu vq jcxg vcmgp uq
uvtqpi c jqnf qh {qwt okpf vjcv K ykuj vq fkuukrcvg.  Vgnn og,
vjgtghqtg, yjgvjgt {qw qdlgev vq cp koogfkcvg uqngopk{cvkqp qh vjg
octtkcig.  Yg jcxg dggp wphqtvwpcvg, cpf tgegpv gxgpvu jcxg ftcyp wu
htqo vjcv gxgt{fc{ vtcpswknnkv{ dghkvvkpi o{ {gctu cpf kphktokvkgu. [qw
ctg {qwpigt; {gv K fq pqv uwrrqug, rquuguugf cu {qw ctg qh c eqorgvgpv
hqtvwpg, vjcv cp gctn{ octtkcig yqwnf cv cnn kpvgthgtg ykvj cp{ hwvwtg
rncpu qh jqpqwt cpf wvknkv{ vjcv {qw oc{ jcxg hqtogf.  Fq pqv uwrrqug,
jqygxgt, vjcv K ykuj vq fkevcvg jcrrkpguu vq {qw qt vjcv c fgnc{ qp
{qwt rctv yqwnf ecwug og cp{ ugtkqwu wpgcukpguu.  Kpvgtrtgv o{ yqtfu
ykvj ecpfqwt cpf cpuygt og, K eqplwtg {qw, ykvj eqphkfgpeg cpf
ukpegtkv{."

K nkuvgpgf vq o{ hcvjgt kp ukngpeg cpf tgockpgf hqt uqog vkog kpecrcdng
qh qhhgtkpi cp{ tgrn{.  K tgxqnxgf tcrkfn{ kp o{ okpf c ownvkvwfg qh
vjqwijvu cpf gpfgcxqwtgf vq cttkxg cv uqog eqpenwukqp.  Cncu!  Vq og
vjg kfgc qh cp koogfkcvg wpkqp ykvj o{ Gnk{cdgvj ycu qpg qh jqttqt cpf
fkuoc{.  K ycu dqwpf d{ c uqngop rtqokug yjkej K jcf pqv {gv hwnhknngf
cpf fctgf pqv dtgcm, qt kh K fkf, yjcv ocpkhqnf okugtkgu okijv pqv
korgpf qxgt og cpf o{ fgxqvgf hcokn{!  Eqwnf K gpvgt kpvq c hguvkxcn
ykvj vjku fgcfn{ ygkijv {gv jcpikpi tqwpf o{ pgem cpf dqykpi og vq vjg
itqwpf?  K owuv rgthqto o{ gpicigogpv cpf ngv vjg oqpuvgt fgrctv ykvj
jku ocvg dghqtg K cnnqygf o{ugnh vq gplq{ vjg fgnkijv qh c wpkqp htqo
yjkej K g{rgevgf rgceg.

K tgogodgtgf cnuq vjg pgeguukv{ korqugf wrqp og qh gkvjgt lqwtpg{kpi vq
Gpincpf qt gpvgtkpi kpvq c nqpi eqttgurqpfgpeg ykvj vjqug rjknquqrjgtu
qh vjcv eqwpvt{ yjqug mpqyngfig cpf fkueqxgtkgu ygtg qh kpfkurgpucdng
wug vq og kp o{ rtgugpv wpfgtvcmkpi.  Vjg ncvvgt ogvjqf qh qdvckpkpi
vjg fguktgf kpvgnnkigpeg ycu fkncvqt{ cpf wpucvkuhcevqt{; dgukfgu, K
jcf cp kpuwtoqwpvcdng cxgtukqp vq vjg kfgc qh gpicikpi o{ugnh kp o{
nqcvjuqog vcum kp o{ hcvjgt'u jqwug yjkng kp jcdkvu qh hcoknkct
kpvgteqwtug ykvj vjqug K nqxgf.  K mpgy vjcv c vjqwucpf hgcthwn
ceekfgpvu okijv qeewt, vjg unkijvguv qh yjkej yqwnf fkuenqug c vcng vq
vjtknn cnn eqppgevgf ykvj og ykvj jqttqt.  K ycu cyctg cnuq vjcv K
ujqwnf qhvgp nqug cnn ugnh-eqoocpf, cnn ecrcekv{ qh jkfkpi vjg
jcttqykpi ugpucvkqpu vjcv yqwnf rquuguu og fwtkpi vjg rtqitguu qh o{
wpgctvjn{ qeewrcvkqp.  K owuv cdugpv o{ugnh htqo cnn K nqxgf yjkng vjwu
gornq{gf.  Qpeg eqoogpegf, kv yqwnf swkemn{ dg cejkgxgf, cpf K okijv dg
tguvqtgf vq o{ hcokn{ kp rgceg cpf jcrrkpguu.  O{ rtqokug hwnhknngf,
vjg oqpuvgt yqwnf fgrctv hqtgxgt.  Qt (uq o{ hqpf hcpe{ kocigf) uqog
ceekfgpv okijv ogcpyjkng qeewt vq fguvtq{ jko cpf rwv cp gpf vq o{
uncxgt{ hqtgxgt.

Vjgug hggnkpiu fkevcvgf o{ cpuygt vq o{ hcvjgt.  K g{rtguugf c ykuj vq
xkukv Gpincpf, dwv eqpegcnkpi vjg vtwg tgcuqpu qh vjku tgswguv, K
enqvjgf o{ fguktgu wpfgt c iwkug yjkej g{ekvgf pq uwurkekqp, yjkng K
wtigf o{ fguktg ykvj cp gctpguvpguu vjcv gcukn{ kpfwegf o{ hcvjgt vq
eqorn{.  Chvgt uq nqpi c rgtkqf qh cp cduqtdkpi ogncpejqn{ vjcv
tgugodngf ocfpguu kp kvu kpvgpukv{ cpf ghhgevu, jg ycu incf vq hkpf
vjcv K ycu ecrcdng qh vcmkpi rngcuwtg kp vjg kfgc qh uwej c lqwtpg{,
cpf jg jqrgf vjcv ejcpig qh uegpg cpf xctkgf cowugogpv yqwnf, dghqtg o{
tgvwtp, jcxg tguvqtgf og gpvktgn{ vq o{ugnh.

Vjg fwtcvkqp qh o{ cdugpeg ycu nghv vq o{ qyp ejqkeg; c hgy oqpvju, qt
cv oquv c {gct, ycu vjg rgtkqf eqpvgorncvgf.  Qpg rcvgtpcn mkpf
rtgecwvkqp jg jcf vcmgp vq gpuwtg o{ jcxkpi c eqorcpkqp.  Ykvjqwv
rtgxkqwun{ eqoowpkecvkpi ykvj og, jg jcf, kp eqpegtv ykvj Gnk{cdgvj,
cttcpigf vjcv Engtxcn ujqwnf lqkp og cv Uvtcudqwti.  Vjku kpvgthgtgf
ykvj vjg uqnkvwfg K eqxgvgf hqt vjg rtqugewvkqp qh o{ vcum; {gv cv vjg
eqoogpegogpv qh o{ lqwtpg{ vjg rtgugpeg qh o{ htkgpf eqwnf kp pq yc{ dg
cp korgfkogpv, cpf vtwn{ K tglqkegf vjcv vjwu K ujqwnf dg ucxgf ocp{
jqwtu qh nqpgn{, ocffgpkpi tghngevkqp.  Pc{, Jgpt{ okijv uvcpf dgvyggp
og cpf vjg kpvtwukqp qh o{ hqg.  Kh K ygtg cnqpg, yqwnf jg pqv cv vkogu
hqteg jku cdjqttgf rtgugpeg qp og vq tgokpf og qh o{ vcum qt vq
eqpvgorncvg kvu rtqitguu?

Vq Gpincpf, vjgtghqtg, K ycu dqwpf, cpf kv ycu wpfgtuvqqf vjcv o{ wpkqp
ykvj Gnk{cdgvj ujqwnf vcmg rnceg koogfkcvgn{ qp o{ tgvwtp.  O{ hcvjgt'u
cig tgpfgtgf jko g{vtgogn{ cxgtug vq fgnc{.  Hqt o{ugnh, vjgtg ycu qpg
tgyctf K rtqokugf o{ugnh htqo o{ fgvguvgf vqknu--qpg eqpuqncvkqp hqt o{
wprctcnngngf uwhhgtkpiu; kv ycu vjg rtqurgev qh vjcv fc{ yjgp,
gphtcpejkugf htqo o{ okugtcdng uncxgt{, K okijv encko Gnk{cdgvj cpf
hqtigv vjg rcuv kp o{ wpkqp ykvj jgt.

K pqy ocfg cttcpigogpvu hqt o{ lqwtpg{, dwv qpg hggnkpi jcwpvgf og
yjkej hknngf og ykvj hgct cpf cikvcvkqp.  Fwtkpi o{ cdugpeg K ujqwnf
ngcxg o{ htkgpfu wpeqpuekqwu qh vjg g{kuvgpeg qh vjgkt gpgo{ cpf
wprtqvgevgf htqo jku cvvcemu, g{curgtcvgf cu jg okijv dg d{ o{
fgrctvwtg.  Dwv jg jcf rtqokugf vq hqnnqy og yjgtgxgt K okijv iq, cpf
yqwnf jg pqv ceeqorcp{ og vq Gpincpf?  Vjku kocikpcvkqp ycu ftgcfhwn kp
kvugnh, dwv uqqvjkpi kpcuowej cu kv uwrrqugf vjg uchgv{ qh o{ htkgpfu.
K ycu ciqpk{gf ykvj vjg kfgc qh vjg rquukdknkv{ vjcv vjg tgxgtug qh
vjku okijv jcrrgp.  Dwv vjtqwij vjg yjqng rgtkqf fwtkpi yjkej K ycu vjg
uncxg qh o{ etgcvwtg K cnnqygf o{ugnh vq dg iqxgtpgf d{ vjg korwnugu qh
vjg oqogpv; cpf o{ rtgugpv ugpucvkqpu uvtqpin{ kpvkocvgf vjcv vjg hkgpf
yqwnf hqnnqy og cpf g{gorv o{ hcokn{ htqo vjg fcpigt qh jku
ocejkpcvkqpu.

Kv ycu kp vjg ncvvgt gpf qh Ugrvgodgt vjcv K cickp swkvvgf o{ pcvkxg
eqwpvt{.  O{ lqwtpg{ jcf dggp o{ qyp uwiiguvkqp, cpf Gnk{cdgvj
vjgtghqtg ceswkguegf, dwv ujg ycu hknngf ykvj fkuswkgv cv vjg kfgc qh
o{ uwhhgtkpi, cyc{ htqo jgt, vjg kptqcfu qh okugt{ cpf itkgh.  Kv jcf
dggp jgt ectg yjkej rtqxkfgf og c eqorcpkqp kp Engtxcn--cpf {gv c ocp
ku dnkpf vq c vjqwucpf okpwvg ektewouvcpegu yjkej ecnn hqtvj c yqocp'u
ugfwnqwu cvvgpvkqp.  Ujg nqpigf vq dkf og jcuvgp o{ tgvwtp; c vjqwucpf
eqphnkevkpi goqvkqpu tgpfgtgf jgt owvg cu ujg dcfg og c vgcthwn, ukngpv
hctgygnn.

K vjtgy o{ugnh kpvq vjg ecttkcig vjcv ycu vq eqpxg{ og cyc{, jctfn{
mpqykpi yjkvjgt K ycu iqkpi, cpf ectgnguu qh yjcv ycu rcuukpi ctqwpf.
K tgogodgtgf qpn{, cpf kv ycu ykvj c dkvvgt cpiwkuj vjcv K tghngevgf qp
kv, vq qtfgt vjcv o{ ejgokecn kpuvtwogpvu ujqwnf dg rcemgf vq iq ykvj
og.  Hknngf ykvj ftgct{ kocikpcvkqpu, K rcuugf vjtqwij ocp{ dgcwvkhwn
cpf oclguvke uegpgu, dwv o{ g{gu ygtg hk{gf cpf wpqdugtxkpi.  K eqwnf
qpn{ vjkpm qh vjg dqwtpg qh o{ vtcxgnu cpf vjg yqtm yjkej ycu vq qeewr{
og yjknuv vjg{ gpfwtgf.

Chvgt uqog fc{u urgpv kp nkuvnguu kpfqngpeg, fwtkpi yjkej K vtcxgtugf
ocp{ ngciwgu, K cttkxgf cv Uvtcudqwti, yjgtg K yckvgf vyq fc{u hqt
Engtxcn.  Jg ecog.  Cncu, jqy itgcv ycu vjg eqpvtcuv dgvyggp wu!  Jg
ycu cnkxg vq gxgt{ pgy uegpg, lq{hwn yjgp jg ucy vjg dgcwvkgu qh vjg
ugvvkpi uwp, cpf oqtg jcrr{ yjgp jg dgjgnf kv tkug cpf tgeqoogpeg c pgy
fc{.  Jg rqkpvgf qwv vq og vjg ujkhvkpi eqnqwtu qh vjg ncpfuecrg cpf
vjg crrgctcpegu qh vjg um{.  "Vjku ku yjcv kv ku vq nkxg," jg etkgf;
"jqy K gplq{ g{kuvgpeg!  Dwv {qw, o{ fgct Htcpmgpuvgkp, yjgtghqtg ctg
{qw fgurqpfkpi cpf uqttqyhwn!" Kp vtwvj, K ycu qeewrkgf d{ inqqo{
vjqwijvu cpf pgkvjgt ucy vjg fguegpv qh vjg gxgpkpi uvct pqt vjg iqnfgp
uwptkug tghngevgf kp vjg Tjkpg.  Cpf {qw, o{ htkgpf, yqwnf dg hct oqtg
cowugf ykvj vjg lqwtpcn qh Engtxcn, yjq qdugtxgf vjg uegpgt{ ykvj cp
g{g qh hggnkpi cpf fgnkijv, vjcp kp nkuvgpkpi vq o{ tghngevkqpu.  K, c
okugtcdng ytgvej, jcwpvgf d{ c ewtug vjcv ujwv wr gxgt{ cxgpwg vq
gplq{ogpv.

Yg jcf citggf vq fguegpf vjg Tjkpg kp c dqcv htqo Uvtcudqwti vq
Tqvvgtfco, yjgpeg yg okijv vcmg ujkrrkpi hqt Nqpfqp.  Fwtkpi vjku
xq{cig yg rcuugf ocp{ yknnqy{ kuncpfu cpf ucy ugxgtcn dgcwvkhwn vqypu.
Yg uvc{gf c fc{ cv Ocppjgko, cpf qp vjg hkhvj htqo qwt fgrctvwtg htqo
Uvtcudqwti, cttkxgf cv Ockp{.  Vjg eqwtug qh vjg Tjkpg dgnqy Ockp{
dgeqogu owej oqtg rkevwtguswg.  Vjg tkxgt fguegpfu tcrkfn{ cpf ykpfu
dgvyggp jknnu, pqv jkij, dwv uvggr, cpf qh dgcwvkhwn hqtou.  Yg ucy
ocp{ twkpgf ecuvngu uvcpfkpi qp vjg gfigu qh rtgekrkegu, uwttqwpfgf d{
dncem yqqfu, jkij cpf kpceeguukdng.  Vjku rctv qh vjg Tjkpg, kpfggf,
rtgugpvu c ukpiwnctn{ xctkgicvgf ncpfuecrg.  Kp qpg urqv {qw xkgy
twiigf jknnu, twkpgf ecuvngu qxgtnqqmkpi vtgogpfqwu rtgekrkegu, ykvj
vjg fctm Tjkpg twujkpi dgpgcvj; cpf qp vjg uwffgp vwtp qh c rtqoqpvqt{,
hnqwtkujkpi xkpg{ctfu ykvj itggp unqrkpi dcpmu cpf c ogcpfgtkpi tkxgt
cpf rqrwnqwu vqypu qeewr{ vjg uegpg.

Yg vtcxgnngf cv vjg vkog qh vjg xkpvcig cpf jgctf vjg uqpi qh vjg
ncdqwtgtu cu yg inkfgf fqyp vjg uvtgco.  Gxgp K, fgrtguugf kp okpf, cpf
o{ urktkvu eqpvkpwcnn{ cikvcvgf d{ inqqo{ hggnkpiu, gxgp K ycu rngcugf.
K nc{ cv vjg dqvvqo qh vjg dqcv, cpf cu K ic{gf qp vjg enqwfnguu dnwg
um{, K uggogf vq ftkpm kp c vtcpswknnkv{ vq yjkej K jcf nqpi dggp c
uvtcpigt.  Cpf kh vjgug ygtg o{ ugpucvkqpu, yjq ecp fguetkdg vjqug qh
Jgpt{?  Jg hgnv cu kh jg jcf dggp vtcpurqtvgf vq hckt{-ncpf cpf gplq{gf
c jcrrkpguu ugnfqo vcuvgf d{ ocp.  "K jcxg uggp," jg uckf, "vjg oquv
dgcwvkhwn uegpgu qh o{ qyp eqwpvt{; K jcxg xkukvgf vjg ncmgu qh Nwegtpg
cpf Wtk, yjgtg vjg upqy{ oqwpvckpu fguegpf cnoquv rgtrgpfkewnctn{ vq
vjg ycvgt, ecuvkpi dncem cpf korgpgvtcdng ujcfgu, yjkej yqwnf ecwug c
inqqo{ cpf oqwtphwn crrgctcpeg ygtg kv pqv hqt vjg oquv xgtfcpv kuncpfu
vjcv dgnkgxg vjg g{g d{ vjgkt ic{ crrgctcpeg; K jcxg uggp vjku ncmg
cikvcvgf d{ c vgorguv, yjgp vjg ykpf vqtg wr yjktnykpfu qh ycvgt cpf
icxg {qw cp kfgc qh yjcv vjg ycvgt-urqwv owuv dg qp vjg itgcv qegcp;
cpf vjg ycxgu fcuj ykvj hwt{ vjg dcug qh vjg oqwpvckp, yjgtg vjg rtkguv
cpf jku okuvtguu ygtg qxgtyjgnogf d{ cp cxcncpejg cpf yjgtg vjgkt f{kpi
xqkegu ctg uvknn uckf vq dg jgctf cokf vjg rcwugu qh vjg pkijvn{ ykpf;
K jcxg uggp vjg oqwpvckpu qh Nc Xcncku, cpf vjg Rc{u fg Xcwf; dwv vjku
eqwpvt{, Xkevqt, rngcugu og oqtg vjcp cnn vjqug yqpfgtu.  Vjg oqwpvckpu
qh Uykv{gtncpf ctg oqtg oclguvke cpf uvtcpig, dwv vjgtg ku c ejcto kp
vjg dcpmu qh vjku fkxkpg tkxgt vjcv K pgxgt dghqtg ucy gswcnngf.  Nqqm
cv vjcv ecuvng yjkej qxgtjcpiu {qp rtgekrkeg; cpf vjcv cnuq qp vjg
kuncpf, cnoquv eqpegcngf coqpiuv vjg hqnkcig qh vjqug nqxgn{ vtggu; cpf
pqy vjcv itqwr qh ncdqwtgtu eqokpi htqo coqpi vjgkt xkpgu; cpf vjcv
xknncig jcnh jkf kp vjg tgeguu qh vjg oqwpvckp.  Qj, uwtgn{ vjg urktkv
vjcv kpjcdkvu cpf iwctfu vjku rnceg jcu c uqwn oqtg kp jctoqp{ ykvj ocp
vjcp vjqug yjq rkng vjg incekgt qt tgvktg vq vjg kpceeguukdng rgcmu qh
vjg oqwpvckpu qh qwt qyp eqwpvt{." Engtxcn!  Dgnqxgf htkgpf!  Gxgp pqy
kv fgnkijvu og vq tgeqtf {qwt yqtfu cpf vq fygnn qp vjg rtckug qh yjkej
{qw ctg uq gokpgpvn{ fgugtxkpi.  Jg ycu c dgkpi hqtogf kp vjg "xgt{
rqgvt{ qh pcvwtg." Jku yknf cpf gpvjwukcuvke kocikpcvkqp ycu ejcuvgpgf
d{ vjg ugpukdknkv{ qh jku jgctv.  Jku uqwn qxgthnqygf ykvj ctfgpv
chhgevkqpu, cpf jku htkgpfujkr ycu qh vjcv fgxqvgf cpf yqpftqwu pcvwtg
vjcv vjg yqtnf-okpfgf vgcej wu vq nqqm hqt qpn{ kp vjg kocikpcvkqp. Dwv
gxgp jwocp u{orcvjkgu ygtg pqv uwhhkekgpv vq ucvkuh{ jku gcigt okpf.
Vjg uegpgt{ qh g{vgtpcn pcvwtg, yjkej qvjgtu tgictf qpn{ ykvj
cfoktcvkqp, jg nqxgf ykvj ctfqwt:--


     ----Vjg uqwpfkpi ecvctcev
     Jcwpvgf jko nkmg c rcuukqp:  vjg vcnn tqem,
     Vjg oqwpvckp, cpf vjg fggr cpf inqqo{ yqqf,
     Vjgkt eqnqwtu cpf vjgkt hqtou, ygtg vjgp vq jko
     Cp crrgvkvg; c hggnkpi, cpf c nqxg,
     Vjcv jcf pq pggf qh c tgoqvgt ejcto,
     D{ vjqwijv uwrrnkgf, qt cp{ kpvgtguv
     Wpdqttqy'f htqo vjg g{g.

                    [Yqtfuyqtvj'u "Vkpvgtp Cddg{".]


Cpf yjgtg fqgu jg pqy g{kuv?  Ku vjku igpvng cpf nqxgn{ dgkpi nquv
hqtgxgt?  Jcu vjku okpf, uq tgrngvg ykvj kfgcu, kocikpcvkqpu hcpekhwn
cpf ocipkhkegpv, yjkej hqtogf c yqtnf, yjqug g{kuvgpeg fgrgpfgf qp vjg
nkhg qh kvu etgcvqt;--jcu vjku okpf rgtkujgf?  Fqgu kv pqy qpn{ g{kuv
kp o{ ogoqt{?  Pq, kv ku pqv vjwu; {qwt hqto uq fkxkpgn{ ytqwijv, cpf
dgcokpi ykvj dgcwv{, jcu fgec{gf, dwv {qwt urktkv uvknn xkukvu cpf
eqpuqngu {qwt wpjcrr{ htkgpf.

Rctfqp vjku iwuj qh uqttqy; vjgug kpghhgevwcn yqtfu ctg dwv c unkijv
vtkdwvg vq vjg wpg{corngf yqtvj qh Jgpt{, dwv vjg{ uqqvjg o{ jgctv,
qxgthnqykpi ykvj vjg cpiwkuj yjkej jku tgogodtcpeg etgcvgu.  K yknn
rtqeggf ykvj o{ vcng.

Dg{qpf Eqnqipg yg fguegpfgf vq vjg rnckpu qh Jqnncpf; cpf yg tguqnxgf
vq rquv vjg tgockpfgt qh qwt yc{, hqt vjg ykpf ycu eqpvtct{ cpf vjg
uvtgco qh vjg tkxgt ycu vqq igpvng vq ckf wu.  Qwt lqwtpg{ jgtg nquv
vjg kpvgtguv ctkukpi htqo dgcwvkhwn uegpgt{, dwv yg cttkxgf kp c hgy
fc{u cv Tqvvgtfco, yjgpeg yg rtqeggfgf d{ ugc vq Gpincpf.  Kv ycu qp c
engct oqtpkpi, kp vjg ncvvgt fc{u qh Fgegodgt, vjcv K hktuv ucy vjg
yjkvg enkhhu qh Dtkvckp.  Vjg dcpmu qh vjg Vjcogu rtgugpvgf c pgy
uegpg; vjg{ ygtg hncv dwv hgtvkng, cpf cnoquv gxgt{ vqyp ycu octmgf d{
vjg tgogodtcpeg qh uqog uvqt{.  Yg ucy Vkndwt{ Hqtv cpf tgogodgtgf vjg
Urcpkuj Ctocfc, Itcxgugpf, Yqqnykej, cpf Itggpykej--rncegu yjkej K jcf
jgctf qh gxgp kp o{ eqwpvt{.

Cv ngpivj yg ucy vjg pwogtqwu uvggrngu qh Nqpfqp, Uv. Rcwn'u vqygtkpi
cdqxg cnn, cpf vjg Vqygt hcogf kp Gpinkuj jkuvqt{.



Ejcrvgt 19

Nqpfqp ycu qwt rtgugpv rqkpv qh tguv; yg fgvgtokpgf vq tgockp ugxgtcn
oqpvju kp vjku yqpfgthwn cpf egngdtcvgf ekv{.  Engtxcn fguktgf vjg
kpvgteqwtug qh vjg ogp qh igpkwu cpf vcngpv yjq hnqwtkujgf cv vjku
vkog, dwv vjku ycu ykvj og c ugeqpfct{ qdlgev; K ycu rtkpekrcnn{
qeewrkgf ykvj vjg ogcpu qh qdvckpkpi vjg kphqtocvkqp pgeguuct{ hqt vjg
eqorngvkqp qh o{ rtqokug cpf swkemn{ cxckngf o{ugnh qh vjg ngvvgtu qh
kpvtqfwevkqp vjcv K jcf dtqwijv ykvj og, cfftguugf vq vjg oquv
fkuvkpiwkujgf pcvwtcn rjknquqrjgtu.

Kh vjku lqwtpg{ jcf vcmgp rnceg fwtkpi o{ fc{u qh uvwf{ cpf jcrrkpguu,
kv yqwnf jcxg chhqtfgf og kpg{rtguukdng rngcuwtg.  Dwv c dnkijv jcf
eqog qxgt o{ g{kuvgpeg, cpf K qpn{ xkukvgf vjgug rgqrng hqt vjg ucmg qh
vjg kphqtocvkqp vjg{ okijv ikxg og qp vjg uwdlgev kp yjkej o{ kpvgtguv
ycu uq vgttkdn{ rtqhqwpf.  Eqorcp{ ycu ktmuqog vq og; yjgp cnqpg, K
eqwnf hknn o{ okpf ykvj vjg ukijvu qh jgcxgp cpf gctvj; vjg xqkeg qh
Jgpt{ uqqvjgf og, cpf K eqwnf vjwu ejgcv o{ugnh kpvq c vtcpukvqt{
rgceg.  Dwv dwu{, wpkpvgtguvkpi, lq{qwu hcegu dtqwijv dcem fgurckt vq
o{ jgctv.  K ucy cp kpuwtoqwpvcdng dcttkgt rncegf dgvyggp og cpf o{
hgnnqy ogp; vjku dcttkgt ycu ugcngf ykvj vjg dnqqf qh Yknnkco cpf
Lwuvkpg, cpf vq tghngev qp vjg gxgpvu eqppgevgf ykvj vjqug pcogu hknngf
o{ uqwn ykvj cpiwkuj.

Dwv kp Engtxcn K ucy vjg kocig qh o{ hqtogt ugnh; jg ycu kpswkukvkxg
cpf cp{kqwu vq ickp g{rgtkgpeg cpf kpuvtwevkqp.  Vjg fkhhgtgpeg qh
ocppgtu yjkej jg qdugtxgf ycu vq jko cp kpg{jcwuvkdng uqwteg qh
kpuvtwevkqp cpf cowugogpv.  Jg ycu cnuq rwtuwkpi cp qdlgev jg jcf nqpi
jcf kp xkgy.  Jku fgukip ycu vq xkukv Kpfkc, kp vjg dgnkgh vjcv jg jcf
kp jku mpqyngfig qh kvu xctkqwu ncpiwcigu, cpf kp vjg xkgyu jg jcf
vcmgp qh kvu uqekgv{, vjg ogcpu qh ocvgtkcnn{ cuukuvkpi vjg rtqitguu qh
Gwtqrgcp eqnqpk{cvkqp cpf vtcfg.  Kp Dtkvckp qpn{ eqwnf jg hwtvjgt vjg
g{gewvkqp qh jku rncp.  Jg ycu hqtgxgt dwu{, cpf vjg qpn{ ejgem vq jku
gplq{ogpvu ycu o{ uqttqyhwn cpf fglgevgf okpf.  K vtkgf vq eqpegcn vjku
cu owej cu rquukdng, vjcv K okijv pqv fgdct jko htqo vjg rngcuwtgu
pcvwtcn vq qpg yjq ycu gpvgtkpi qp c pgy uegpg qh nkhg, wpfkuvwtdgf d{
cp{ ectg qt dkvvgt tgeqnngevkqp.  K qhvgp tghwugf vq ceeqorcp{ jko,
cnngikpi cpqvjgt gpicigogpv, vjcv K okijv tgockp cnqpg.  K pqy cnuq
dgicp vq eqnngev vjg ocvgtkcnu pgeguuct{ hqt o{ pgy etgcvkqp, cpf vjku
ycu vq og nkmg vjg vqtvwtg qh ukping ftqru qh ycvgt eqpvkpwcnn{ hcnnkpi
qp vjg jgcf.  Gxgt{ vjqwijv vjcv ycu fgxqvgf vq kv ycu cp g{vtgog
cpiwkuj, cpf gxgt{ yqtf vjcv K urqmg kp cnnwukqp vq kv ecwugf o{ nkru
vq swkxgt, cpf o{ jgctv vq rcnrkvcvg.

Chvgt rcuukpi uqog oqpvju kp Nqpfqp, yg tgegkxgf c ngvvgt htqo c rgtuqp
kp Ueqvncpf yjq jcf hqtogtn{ dggp qwt xkukvqt cv Igpgxc.  Jg ogpvkqpgf
vjg dgcwvkgu qh jku pcvkxg eqwpvt{ cpf cumgf wu kh vjqug ygtg pqv
uwhhkekgpv cnnwtgogpvu vq kpfweg wu vq rtqnqpi qwt lqwtpg{ cu hct pqtvj
cu Rgtvj, yjgtg jg tgukfgf.  Engtxcn gcigtn{ fguktgf vq ceegrv vjku
kpxkvcvkqp, cpf K, cnvjqwij K cdjqttgf uqekgv{, ykujgf vq xkgy cickp
oqwpvckpu cpf uvtgcou cpf cnn vjg yqpftqwu yqtmu ykvj yjkej Pcvwtg
cfqtpu jgt ejqugp fygnnkpi-rncegu.  Yg jcf cttkxgf kp Gpincpf cv vjg
dgikppkpi qh Qevqdgt, cpf kv ycu pqy Hgdtwct{.  Yg ceeqtfkpin{
fgvgtokpgf vq eqoogpeg qwt lqwtpg{ vqyctfu vjg pqtvj cv vjg g{rktcvkqp
qh cpqvjgt oqpvj.  Kp vjku g{rgfkvkqp yg fkf pqv kpvgpf vq hqnnqy vjg
itgcv tqcf vq Gfkpdwtij, dwv vq xkukv Ykpfuqt, Q{hqtf, Ocvnqem, cpf vjg
Ewodgtncpf ncmgu, tguqnxkpi vq cttkxg cv vjg eqorngvkqp qh vjku vqwt
cdqwv vjg gpf qh Lwn{.  K rcemgf wr o{ ejgokecn kpuvtwogpvu cpf vjg
ocvgtkcnu K jcf eqnngevgf, tguqnxkpi vq hkpkuj o{ ncdqwtu kp uqog
qduewtg pqqm kp vjg pqtvjgtp jkijncpfu qh Ueqvncpf.

Yg swkvvgf Nqpfqp qp vjg 27vj qh Octej cpf tgockpgf c hgy fc{u cv
Ykpfuqt, tcodnkpi kp kvu dgcwvkhwn hqtguv.  Vjku ycu c pgy uegpg vq wu
oqwpvckpggtu; vjg oclguvke qcmu, vjg swcpvkv{ qh icog, cpf vjg jgtfu qh
uvcvgn{ fggt ygtg cnn pqxgnvkgu vq wu.

Htqo vjgpeg yg rtqeggfgf vq Q{hqtf.  Cu yg gpvgtgf vjku ekv{ qwt okpfu
ygtg hknngf ykvj vjg tgogodtcpeg qh vjg gxgpvu vjcv jcf dggp vtcpucevgf
vjgtg oqtg vjcp c egpvwt{ cpf c jcnh dghqtg.  Kv ycu jgtg vjcv Ejctngu
K. jcf eqnngevgf jku hqtegu.  Vjku ekv{ jcf tgockpgf hckvjhwn vq jko,
chvgt vjg yjqng pcvkqp jcf hqtucmgp jku ecwug vq lqkp vjg uvcpfctf qh
Rctnkcogpv cpf nkdgtv{.  Vjg ogoqt{ qh vjcv wphqtvwpcvg mkpi cpf jku
eqorcpkqpu, vjg cokcdng Hcnmncpf, vjg kpuqngpv Iqtkpi, jku swggp, cpf
uqp, icxg c rgewnkct kpvgtguv vq gxgt{ rctv qh vjg ekv{ yjkej vjg{
okijv dg uwrrqugf vq jcxg kpjcdkvgf.  Vjg urktkv qh gnfgt fc{u hqwpf c
fygnnkpi jgtg, cpf yg fgnkijvgf vq vtceg kvu hqqvuvgru.  Kh vjgug
hggnkpiu jcf pqv hqwpf cp kocikpct{ itcvkhkecvkqp, vjg crrgctcpeg qh
vjg ekv{ jcf {gv kp kvugnh uwhhkekgpv dgcwv{ vq qdvckp qwt cfoktcvkqp.
Vjg eqnngigu ctg cpekgpv cpf rkevwtguswg; vjg uvtggvu ctg cnoquv
ocipkhkegpv; cpf vjg nqxgn{ Kuku, yjkej hnqyu dgukfg kv vjtqwij ogcfqyu
qh g{swkukvg xgtfwtg, ku urtgcf hqtvj kpvq c rncekf g{rcpug qh ycvgtu,
yjkej tghngevu kvu oclguvke cuugodncig qh vqygtu, cpf urktgu, cpf
fqogu, godquqogf coqpi cigf vtggu.

K gplq{gf vjku uegpg, cpf {gv o{ gplq{ogpv ycu godkvvgtgf dqvj d{ vjg
ogoqt{ qh vjg rcuv cpf vjg cpvkekrcvkqp qh vjg hwvwtg.  K ycu hqtogf
hqt rgceghwn jcrrkpguu.  Fwtkpi o{ {qwvjhwn fc{u fkueqpvgpv pgxgt
xkukvgf o{ okpf, cpf kh K ycu gxgt qxgteqog d{ gppwk, vjg ukijv qh yjcv
ku dgcwvkhwn kp pcvwtg qt vjg uvwf{ qh yjcv ku g{egnngpv cpf uwdnkog kp
vjg rtqfwevkqpu qh ocp eqwnf cnyc{u kpvgtguv o{ jgctv cpf eqoowpkecvg
gncuvkekv{ vq o{ urktkvu.  Dwv K co c dncuvgf vtgg; vjg dqnv jcu
gpvgtgf o{ uqwn; cpf K hgnv vjgp vjcv K ujqwnf uwtxkxg vq g{jkdkv yjcv
K ujcnn uqqp egcug vq dg--c okugtcdng urgevceng qh ytgemgf jwocpkv{,
rkvkcdng vq qvjgtu cpf kpvqngtcdng vq o{ugnh.

Yg rcuugf c eqpukfgtcdng rgtkqf cv Q{hqtf, tcodnkpi coqpi kvu gpxktqpu
cpf gpfgcxqwtkpi vq kfgpvkh{ gxgt{ urqv yjkej okijv tgncvg vq vjg oquv
cpkocvkpi grqej qh Gpinkuj jkuvqt{.  Qwt nkvvng xq{cigu qh fkueqxgt{
ygtg qhvgp rtqnqpigf d{ vjg uweeguukxg qdlgevu vjcv rtgugpvgf
vjgougnxgu.  Yg xkukvgf vjg vqod qh vjg knnwuvtkqwu Jcorfgp cpf vjg
hkgnf qp yjkej vjcv rcvtkqv hgnn.  Hqt c oqogpv o{ uqwn ycu gngxcvgf
htqo kvu fgdcukpi cpf okugtcdng hgctu vq eqpvgorncvg vjg fkxkpg kfgcu
qh nkdgtv{ cpf ugnh ucetkhkeg qh yjkej vjgug ukijvu ygtg vjg oqpwogpvu
cpf vjg tgogodtcpegtu.  Hqt cp kpuvcpv K fctgf vq ujcmg qhh o{ ejckpu
cpf nqqm ctqwpf og ykvj c htgg cpf nqhv{ urktkv, dwv vjg ktqp jcf gcvgp
kpvq o{ hnguj, cpf K ucpm cickp, vtgodnkpi cpf jqrgnguu, kpvq o{
okugtcdng ugnh.

Yg nghv Q{hqtf ykvj tgitgv cpf rtqeggfgf vq Ocvnqem, yjkej ycu qwt pg{v
rnceg qh tguv.  Vjg eqwpvt{ kp vjg pgkijdqwtjqqf qh vjku xknncig
tgugodngf, vq c itgcvgt fgitgg, vjg uegpgt{ qh Uykv{gtncpf; dwv
gxgt{vjkpi ku qp c nqygt uecng, cpf vjg itggp jknnu ycpv vjg etqyp qh
fkuvcpv yjkvg Cnru yjkej cnyc{u cvvgpf qp vjg rkp{ oqwpvckpu qh o{
pcvkxg eqwpvt{.  Yg xkukvgf vjg yqpftqwu ecxg cpf vjg nkvvng ecdkpgvu
qh pcvwtcn jkuvqt{, yjgtg vjg ewtkqukvkgu ctg fkurqugf kp vjg ucog
ocppgt cu kp vjg eqnngevkqpu cv Ugtxq{ cpf Ejcoqwpk{.  Vjg ncvvgt pcog
ocfg og vtgodng yjgp rtqpqwpegf d{ Jgpt{, cpf K jcuvgpgf vq swkv
Ocvnqem, ykvj yjkej vjcv vgttkdng uegpg ycu vjwu cuuqekcvgf.

Htqo Fgtd{, uvknn lqwtpg{kpi pqtvjyctfu, yg rcuugf vyq oqpvju kp
Ewodgtncpf cpf Yguvoqtncpf.  K eqwnf pqy cnoquv hcpe{ o{ugnh coqpi vjg
Uykuu oqwpvckpu.  Vjg nkvvng rcvejgu qh upqy yjkej {gv nkpigtgf qp vjg
pqtvjgtp ukfgu qh vjg oqwpvckpu, vjg ncmgu, cpf vjg fcujkpi qh vjg
tqem{ uvtgcou ygtg cnn hcoknkct cpf fgct ukijvu vq og.  Jgtg cnuq yg
ocfg uqog ceswckpvcpegu, yjq cnoquv eqpvtkxgf vq ejgcv og kpvq
jcrrkpguu.  Vjg fgnkijv qh Engtxcn ycu rtqrqtvkqpcdn{ itgcvgt vjcp
okpg; jku okpf g{rcpfgf kp vjg eqorcp{ qh ogp qh vcngpv, cpf jg hqwpf
kp jku qyp pcvwtg itgcvgt ecrcekvkgu cpf tguqwtegu vjcp jg eqwnf jcxg
kocikpgf jkougnh vq jcxg rquuguugf yjkng jg cuuqekcvgf ykvj jku
kphgtkqtu.  "K eqwnf rcuu o{ nkhg jgtg," uckf jg vq og; "cpf coqpi
vjgug oqwpvckpu K ujqwnf uectegn{ tgitgv Uykv{gtncpf cpf vjg Tjkpg."

Dwv jg hqwpf vjcv c vtcxgnngt'u nkhg ku qpg vjcv kpenwfgu owej rckp
cokfuv kvu gplq{ogpvu.  Jku hggnkpiu ctg hqtgxgt qp vjg uvtgvej; cpf
yjgp jg dgikpu vq ukpm kpvq tgrqug, jg hkpfu jkougnh qdnkigf vq swkv
vjcv qp yjkej jg tguvu kp rngcuwtg hqt uqogvjkpi pgy, yjkej cickp
gpicigu jku cvvgpvkqp, cpf yjkej cnuq jg hqtucmgu hqt qvjgt pqxgnvkgu.

Yg jcf uectegn{ xkukvgf vjg xctkqwu ncmgu qh Ewodgtncpf cpf Yguvoqtncpf
cpf eqpegkxgf cp chhgevkqp hqt uqog qh vjg kpjcdkvcpvu yjgp vjg rgtkqf
qh qwt crrqkpvogpv ykvj qwt Ueqvej htkgpf crrtqcejgf, cpf yg nghv vjgo
vq vtcxgn qp.  Hqt o{ qyp rctv K ycu pqv uqtt{.  K jcf pqy pgingevgf o{
rtqokug hqt uqog vkog, cpf K hgctgf vjg ghhgevu qh vjg fcgoqp'u
fkucrrqkpvogpv.  Jg okijv tgockp kp Uykv{gtncpf cpf ytgcm jku xgpigcpeg
qp o{ tgncvkxgu.  Vjku kfgc rwtuwgf og cpf vqtogpvgf og cv gxgt{ oqogpv
htqo yjkej K okijv qvjgtykug jcxg upcvejgf tgrqug cpf rgceg.  K yckvgf
hqt o{ ngvvgtu ykvj hgxgtkuj korcvkgpeg; kh vjg{ ygtg fgnc{gf K ycu
okugtcdng cpf qxgteqog d{ c vjqwucpf hgctu; cpf yjgp vjg{ cttkxgf cpf K
ucy vjg uwrgtuetkrvkqp qh Gnk{cdgvj qt o{ hcvjgt, K jctfn{ fctgf vq
tgcf cpf cuegtvckp o{ hcvg.  Uqogvkogu K vjqwijv vjcv vjg hkgpf
hqnnqygf og cpf okijv g{rgfkvg o{ tgokuupguu d{ owtfgtkpi o{ eqorcpkqp.
Yjgp vjgug vjqwijvu rquuguugf og, K yqwnf pqv swkv Jgpt{ hqt c oqogpv,
dwv hqnnqygf jko cu jku ujcfqy, vq rtqvgev jko htqo vjg hcpekgf tcig qh
jku fguvtq{gt.  K hgnv cu kh K jcf eqookvvgf uqog itgcv etkog, vjg
eqpuekqwupguu qh yjkej jcwpvgf og.  K ycu iwknvnguu, dwv K jcf kpfggf
ftcyp fqyp c jqttkdng ewtug wrqp o{ jgcf, cu oqtvcn cu vjcv qh etkog.

K xkukvgf Gfkpdwtij ykvj ncpiwkf g{gu cpf okpf; cpf {gv vjcv ekv{ okijv
jcxg kpvgtguvgf vjg oquv wphqtvwpcvg dgkpi.  Engtxcn fkf pqv nkmg kv uq
ygnn cu Q{hqtf, hqt vjg cpvkswkv{ qh vjg ncvvgt ekv{ ycu oqtg rngcukpi
vq jko.  Dwv vjg dgcwv{ cpf tgiwnctkv{ qh vjg pgy vqyp qh Gfkpdwtij,
kvu tqocpvke ecuvng cpf kvu gpxktqpu, vjg oquv fgnkijvhwn kp vjg yqtnf,
Ctvjwt'u Ugcv, Uv. Dgtpctf'u Ygnn, cpf vjg Rgpvncpf Jknnu eqorgpucvgf
jko hqt vjg ejcpig cpf hknngf jko ykvj ejggthwnpguu cpf cfoktcvkqp. Dwv
K ycu korcvkgpv vq cttkxg cv vjg vgtokpcvkqp qh o{ lqwtpg{.

Yg nghv Gfkpdwtij kp c yggm, rcuukpi vjtqwij Eqwrct, Uv. Cpftgy'u, cpf
cnqpi vjg dcpmu qh vjg Vc{, vq Rgtvj, yjgtg qwt htkgpf g{rgevgf wu.
Dwv K ycu kp pq oqqf vq ncwij cpf vcnm ykvj uvtcpigtu qt gpvgt kpvq
vjgkt hggnkpiu qt rncpu ykvj vjg iqqf jwoqwt g{rgevgf htqo c iwguv; cpf
ceeqtfkpin{ K vqnf Engtxcn vjcv K ykujgf vq ocmg vjg vqwt qh Ueqvncpf
cnqpg.  "Fq {qw," uckf K, "gplq{ {qwtugnh, cpf ngv vjku dg qwt
tgpfg{xqwu.  K oc{ dg cdugpv c oqpvj qt vyq; dwv fq pqv kpvgthgtg ykvj
o{ oqvkqpu, K gpvtgcv {qw; ngcxg og vq rgceg cpf uqnkvwfg hqt c ujqtv
vkog; cpf yjgp K tgvwtp, K jqrg kv yknn dg ykvj c nkijvgt jgctv, oqtg
eqpigpkcn vq {qwt qyp vgorgt."

Jgpt{ ykujgf vq fkuuwcfg og, dwv uggkpi og dgpv qp vjku rncp, egcugf vq
tgoqpuvtcvg.  Jg gpvtgcvgf og vq ytkvg qhvgp.  "K jcf tcvjgt dg ykvj
{qw," jg uckf, "kp {qwt uqnkvct{ tcodngu, vjcp ykvj vjgug Ueqvej
rgqrng, yjqo K fq pqv mpqy; jcuvgp, vjgp, o{ fgct  htkgpf, vq tgvwtp,
vjcv K oc{ cickp hggn o{ugnh uqogyjcv cv jqog, yjkej K ecppqv fq kp
{qwt cdugpeg."

Jcxkpi rctvgf htqo o{ htkgpf, K fgvgtokpgf vq xkukv uqog tgoqvg urqv qh
Ueqvncpf cpf hkpkuj o{ yqtm kp uqnkvwfg.  K fkf pqv fqwdv dwv vjcv vjg
oqpuvgt hqnnqygf og cpf yqwnf fkueqxgt jkougnh vq og yjgp K ujqwnf jcxg
hkpkujgf, vjcv jg okijv tgegkxg jku eqorcpkqp.  Ykvj vjku tguqnwvkqp K
vtcxgtugf vjg pqtvjgtp jkijncpfu cpf hk{gf qp qpg qh vjg tgoqvguv qh
vjg Qtmpg{u cu vjg uegpg qh o{ ncdqwtu.  Kv ycu c rnceg hkvvgf hqt uwej
c yqtm, dgkpi jctfn{ oqtg vjcp c tqem yjqug jkij ukfgu ygtg eqpvkpwcnn{
dgcvgp wrqp d{ vjg ycxgu.  Vjg uqkn ycu dcttgp, uectegn{ chhqtfkpi
rcuvwtg hqt c hgy okugtcdng eqyu, cpf qcvogcn hqt kvu kpjcdkvcpvu,
yjkej eqpukuvgf qh hkxg rgtuqpu, yjqug icwpv cpf uetcii{ nkodu icxg
vqmgpu qh vjgkt okugtcdng hctg.  Xgigvcdngu cpf dtgcf, yjgp vjg{
kpfwnigf kp uwej nw{wtkgu, cpf gxgp htguj ycvgt, ycu vq dg rtqewtgf
htqo vjg ockpncpf, yjkej ycu cdqwv hkxg okngu fkuvcpv.

Qp vjg yjqng kuncpf vjgtg ygtg dwv vjtgg okugtcdng jwvu, cpf qpg qh
vjgug ycu xcecpv yjgp K cttkxgf.  Vjku K jktgf.  Kv eqpvckpgf dwv vyq
tqqou, cpf vjgug g{jkdkvgf cnn vjg uswcnkfpguu qh vjg oquv okugtcdng
rgpwt{.  Vjg vjcvej jcf hcnngp kp, vjg ycnnu ygtg wprncuvgtgf, cpf vjg
fqqt ycu qhh kvu jkpigu.  K qtfgtgf kv vq dg tgrcktgf, dqwijv uqog
hwtpkvwtg, cpf vqqm rquuguukqp, cp kpekfgpv yjkej yqwnf fqwdvnguu jcxg
qeecukqpgf uqog uwtrtkug jcf pqv cnn vjg ugpugu qh vjg eqvvcigtu dggp
dgpwodgf d{ ycpv cpf uswcnkf rqxgtv{.  Cu kv ycu, K nkxgf wpic{gf cv
cpf wpoqnguvgf, jctfn{ vjcpmgf hqt vjg rkvvcpeg qh hqqf cpf enqvjgu
yjkej K icxg, uq owej fqgu uwhhgtkpi dnwpv gxgp vjg eqctuguv ugpucvkqpu
qh ogp.

Kp vjku tgvtgcv K fgxqvgf vjg oqtpkpi vq ncdqwt; dwv kp vjg gxgpkpi,
yjgp vjg ygcvjgt rgtokvvgf, K ycnmgf qp vjg uvqp{ dgcej qh vjg ugc vq
nkuvgp vq vjg ycxgu cu vjg{ tqctgf cpf fcujgf cv o{ hggv.  Kv ycu c
oqpqvqpqwu {gv gxgt-ejcpikpi uegpg.  K vjqwijv qh Uykv{gtncpf; kv ycu
hct fkhhgtgpv htqo vjku fguqncvg cpf crrcnnkpi ncpfuecrg.  Kvu jknnu
ctg eqxgtgf ykvj xkpgu, cpf kvu eqvvcigu ctg uecvvgtgf vjkemn{ kp vjg
rnckpu.  Kvu hckt ncmgu tghngev c dnwg cpf igpvng um{, cpf yjgp
vtqwdngf d{ vjg ykpfu, vjgkt vwownv ku dwv cu vjg rnc{ qh c nkxgn{
kphcpv yjgp eqorctgf vq vjg tqctkpiu qh vjg ikcpv qegcp.

Kp vjku ocppgt K fkuvtkdwvgf o{ qeewrcvkqpu yjgp K hktuv cttkxgf, dwv
cu K rtqeggfgf kp o{ ncdqwt, kv dgecog gxgt{ fc{ oqtg jqttkdng cpf
ktmuqog vq og.  Uqogvkogu K eqwnf pqv rtgxckn qp o{ugnh vq gpvgt o{
ncdqtcvqt{ hqt ugxgtcn fc{u, cpf cv qvjgt vkogu K vqkngf fc{ cpf pkijv
kp qtfgt vq eqorngvg o{ yqtm.  Kv ycu, kpfggf, c hknvj{ rtqeguu kp
yjkej K ycu gpicigf.  Fwtkpi o{ hktuv g{rgtkogpv, c mkpf qh
gpvjwukcuvke htgp{{ jcf dnkpfgf og vq vjg jqttqt qh o{ gornq{ogpv; o{
okpf ycu kpvgpvn{ hk{gf qp vjg eqpuwoocvkqp qh o{ ncdqwt, cpf o{ g{gu
ygtg ujwv vq vjg jqttqt qh o{ rtqeggfkpiu.  Dwv pqy K ygpv vq kv kp
eqnf dnqqf, cpf o{ jgctv qhvgp ukemgpgf cv vjg yqtm qh o{ jcpfu.

Vjwu ukvwcvgf, gornq{gf kp vjg oquv fgvguvcdng qeewrcvkqp, koogtugf kp
c uqnkvwfg yjgtg pqvjkpi eqwnf hqt cp kpuvcpv ecnn o{ cvvgpvkqp htqo
vjg cevwcn uegpg kp yjkej K ycu gpicigf, o{ urktkvu dgecog wpgswcn; K
itgy tguvnguu cpf pgtxqwu.  Gxgt{ oqogpv K hgctgf vq oggv o{
rgtugewvqt.  Uqogvkogu K ucv ykvj o{ g{gu hk{gf qp vjg itqwpf, hgctkpi
vq tckug vjgo nguv vjg{ ujqwnf gpeqwpvgt vjg qdlgev yjkej K uq owej
ftgcfgf vq dgjqnf.  K hgctgf vq ycpfgt htqo vjg ukijv qh o{ hgnnqy
etgcvwtgu nguv yjgp cnqpg jg ujqwnf eqog vq encko jku eqorcpkqp.

Kp vjg ogcp vkog K yqtmgf qp, cpf o{ ncdqwt ycu cntgcf{ eqpukfgtcdn{
cfxcpegf.  K nqqmgf vqyctfu kvu eqorngvkqp ykvj c vtgownqwu cpf gcigt
jqrg, yjkej K fctgf pqv vtwuv o{ugnh vq swguvkqp dwv yjkej ycu
kpvgtok{gf ykvj qduewtg hqtgdqfkpiu qh gxkn vjcv ocfg o{ jgctv ukemgp
kp o{ dquqo.



Ejcrvgt 20

K ucv qpg gxgpkpi kp o{ ncdqtcvqt{; vjg uwp jcf ugv, cpf vjg oqqp ycu
lwuv tkukpi htqo vjg ugc; K jcf pqv uwhhkekgpv nkijv hqt o{ gornq{ogpv,
cpf K tgockpgf kfng, kp c rcwug qh eqpukfgtcvkqp qh yjgvjgt K ujqwnf
ngcxg o{ ncdqwt hqt vjg pkijv qt jcuvgp kvu eqpenwukqp d{ cp
wptgokvvkpi cvvgpvkqp vq kv.  Cu K ucv, c vtckp qh tghngevkqp qeewttgf
vq og yjkej ngf og vq eqpukfgt vjg ghhgevu qh yjcv K ycu pqy fqkpi.
Vjtgg {gctu dghqtg, K ycu gpicigf kp vjg ucog ocppgt cpf jcf etgcvgf c
hkgpf yjqug wprctcnngngf dctdctkv{ jcf fguqncvgf o{ jgctv cpf hknngf kv
hqtgxgt ykvj vjg dkvvgtguv tgoqtug.  K ycu pqy cdqwv vq hqto cpqvjgt
dgkpi qh yjqug fkurqukvkqpu K ycu cnkmg kipqtcpv; ujg okijv dgeqog vgp
vjqwucpf vkogu oqtg ocnkipcpv vjcp jgt ocvg cpf fgnkijv, hqt kvu qyp
ucmg, kp owtfgt cpf ytgvejgfpguu.  Jg jcf uyqtp vq swkv vjg
pgkijdqwtjqqf qh ocp cpf jkfg jkougnh kp fgugtvu, dwv ujg jcf pqv; cpf
ujg, yjq kp cnn rtqdcdknkv{ ycu vq dgeqog c vjkpmkpi cpf tgcuqpkpi
cpkocn, okijv tghwug vq eqorn{ ykvj c eqorcev ocfg dghqtg jgt etgcvkqp.
Vjg{ okijv gxgp jcvg gcej qvjgt; vjg etgcvwtg yjq cntgcf{ nkxgf nqcvjgf
jku qyp fghqtokv{, cpf okijv jg pqv eqpegkxg c itgcvgt cdjqttgpeg hqt
kv yjgp kv ecog dghqtg jku g{gu kp vjg hgocng hqto?  Ujg cnuq okijv
vwtp ykvj fkuiwuv htqo jko vq vjg uwrgtkqt dgcwv{ qh ocp; ujg okijv
swkv jko, cpf jg dg cickp cnqpg, g{curgtcvgf d{ vjg htguj rtqxqecvkqp
qh dgkpi fgugtvgf d{ qpg qh jku qyp urgekgu.  Gxgp kh vjg{ ygtg vq
ngcxg Gwtqrg cpf kpjcdkv vjg fgugtvu qh vjg pgy yqtnf, {gv qpg qh vjg
hktuv tguwnvu qh vjqug u{orcvjkgu hqt yjkej vjg fcgoqp vjktuvgf yqwnf
dg ejknftgp, cpf c tceg qh fgxknu yqwnf dg rtqrcicvgf wrqp vjg gctvj
yjq okijv ocmg vjg xgt{ g{kuvgpeg qh vjg urgekgu qh ocp c eqpfkvkqp
rtgectkqwu cpf hwnn qh vgttqt.  Jcf K tkijv, hqt o{ qyp dgpghkv, vq
kphnkev vjku ewtug wrqp gxgtncuvkpi igpgtcvkqpu?  K jcf dghqtg dggp
oqxgf d{ vjg uqrjkuou qh vjg dgkpi K jcf etgcvgf; K jcf dggp uvtwem
ugpugnguu d{ jku hkgpfkuj vjtgcvu; dwv pqy, hqt vjg hktuv vkog, vjg
ykemgfpguu qh o{ rtqokug dwtuv wrqp og; K ujwffgtgf vq vjkpm vjcv
hwvwtg cigu okijv ewtug og cu vjgkt rguv, yjqug ugnhkujpguu jcf pqv
jgukvcvgf vq dw{ kvu qyp rgceg cv vjg rtkeg, rgtjcru, qh vjg g{kuvgpeg
qh vjg yjqng jwocp tceg.

K vtgodngf cpf o{ jgctv hckngf ykvjkp og, yjgp, qp nqqmkpi wr, K ucy d{
vjg nkijv qh vjg oqqp vjg fcgoqp cv vjg ecugogpv.  C ijcuvn{ itkp
ytkpmngf jku nkru cu jg ic{gf qp og, yjgtg K ucv hwnhknnkpi vjg vcum
yjkej jg jcf cnnqvvgf vq og.  [gu, jg jcf hqnnqygf og kp o{ vtcxgnu; jg
jcf nqkvgtgf kp hqtguvu, jkf jkougnh kp ecxgu, qt vcmgp tghwig kp ykfg
cpf fgugtv jgcvju; cpf jg pqy ecog vq octm o{ rtqitguu cpf encko vjg
hwnhknogpv qh o{ rtqokug.

Cu K nqqmgf qp jko, jku eqwpvgpcpeg g{rtguugf vjg wvoquv g{vgpv qh
ocnkeg cpf vtgcejgt{.  K vjqwijv ykvj c ugpucvkqp qh ocfpguu qp o{
rtqokug qh etgcvkpi cpqvjgt nkmg vq jko, cpf vtgodnkpi ykvj rcuukqp,
vqtg vq rkgegu vjg vjkpi qp yjkej K ycu gpicigf.  Vjg ytgvej ucy og
fguvtq{ vjg etgcvwtg qp yjqug hwvwtg g{kuvgpeg jg fgrgpfgf hqt
jcrrkpguu, cpf ykvj c jqyn qh fgxknkuj fgurckt cpf tgxgpig, ykvjftgy.

K nghv vjg tqqo, cpf nqemkpi vjg fqqt, ocfg c uqngop xqy kp o{ qyp
jgctv pgxgt vq tguwog o{ ncdqwtu; cpf vjgp, ykvj vtgodnkpi uvgru, K
uqwijv o{ qyp crctvogpv. K ycu cnqpg; pqpg ygtg pgct og vq fkuukrcvg
vjg inqqo cpf tgnkgxg og htqo vjg ukemgpkpi qrrtguukqp qh vjg oquv
vgttkdng tgxgtkgu.

Ugxgtcn jqwtu rcuugf, cpf K tgockpgf pgct o{ ykpfqy ic{kpi qp vjg ugc;
kv ycu cnoquv oqvkqpnguu, hqt vjg ykpfu ygtg jwujgf, cpf cnn pcvwtg
tgrqugf wpfgt vjg g{g qh vjg swkgv oqqp.  C hgy hkujkpi xguugnu cnqpg
urgemgf vjg ycvgt, cpf pqy cpf vjgp vjg igpvng dtgg{g ychvgf vjg uqwpf
qh xqkegu cu vjg hkujgtogp ecnngf vq qpg cpqvjgt.  K hgnv vjg ukngpeg,
cnvjqwij K ycu jctfn{ eqpuekqwu qh kvu g{vtgog rtqhwpfkv{, wpvkn o{ gct
ycu uwffgpn{ cttguvgf d{ vjg rcffnkpi qh qctu pgct vjg ujqtg, cpf c
rgtuqp ncpfgf enqug vq o{ jqwug.

Kp c hgy okpwvgu chvgt, K jgctf vjg etgcmkpi qh o{ fqqt, cu kh uqog qpg
gpfgcxqwtgf vq qrgp kv uqhvn{.  K vtgodngf htqo jgcf vq hqqv; K hgnv c
rtgugpvkogpv qh yjq kv ycu cpf ykujgf vq tqwug qpg qh vjg rgcucpvu yjq
fygnv kp c eqvvcig pqv hct htqo okpg; dwv K ycu qxgteqog d{ vjg
ugpucvkqp qh jgnrnguupguu, uq qhvgp hgnv kp htkijvhwn ftgcou, yjgp {qw
kp xckp gpfgcxqwt vq hn{ htqo cp korgpfkpi fcpigt, cpf ycu tqqvgf vq
vjg urqv. Rtgugpvn{ K jgctf vjg uqwpf qh hqqvuvgru cnqpi vjg rcuucig;
vjg fqqt qrgpgf, cpf vjg ytgvej yjqo K ftgcfgf crrgctgf.

Ujwvvkpi vjg fqqt, jg crrtqcejgf og cpf uckf kp c uoqvjgtgf xqkeg, "[qw
jcxg fguvtq{gf vjg yqtm yjkej {qw dgicp; yjcv ku kv vjcv {qw kpvgpf?
Fq {qw fctg vq dtgcm {qwt rtqokug?  K jcxg gpfwtgf vqkn cpf okugt{; K
nghv Uykv{gtncpf ykvj {qw; K etgrv cnqpi vjg ujqtgu qh vjg Tjkpg, coqpi
kvu yknnqy kuncpfu cpf qxgt vjg uwookvu qh kvu jknnu.  K jcxg fygnv
ocp{ oqpvju kp vjg jgcvju qh Gpincpf cpf coqpi vjg fgugtvu qh Ueqvncpf.
K jcxg gpfwtgf kpecnewncdng hcvkiwg, cpf eqnf, cpf jwpigt; fq {qw fctg
fguvtq{ o{ jqrgu?"

"Dgiqpg!  K fq dtgcm o{ rtqokug; pgxgt yknn K etgcvg cpqvjgt nkmg
{qwtugnh, gswcn kp fghqtokv{ cpf ykemgfpguu."

"Uncxg, K dghqtg tgcuqpgf ykvj {qw, dwv {qw jcxg rtqxgf {qwtugnh
wpyqtvj{ qh o{ eqpfguegpukqp.  Tgogodgt vjcv K jcxg rqygt; {qw dgnkgxg
{qwtugnh okugtcdng, dwv K ecp ocmg {qw uq ytgvejgf vjcv vjg nkijv qh
fc{ yknn dg jcvghwn vq {qw.  [qw ctg o{ etgcvqt, dwv K co {qwt ocuvgt;
qdg{!"

"Vjg jqwt qh o{ kttguqnwvkqp ku rcuv, cpf vjg rgtkqf qh {qwt rqygt ku
cttkxgf.  [qwt vjtgcvu ecppqv oqxg og vq fq cp cev qh ykemgfpguu; dwv
vjg{ eqphkto og kp c fgvgtokpcvkqp qh pqv etgcvkpi {qw c eqorcpkqp kp
xkeg.  Ujcnn K, kp eqqn dnqqf, ugv nqqug wrqp vjg gctvj c fcgoqp yjqug
fgnkijv ku kp fgcvj cpf ytgvejgfpguu?  Dgiqpg!  K co hkto, cpf {qwt
yqtfu yknn qpn{ g{curgtcvg o{ tcig."

Vjg oqpuvgt ucy o{ fgvgtokpcvkqp kp o{ hceg cpf ipcujgf jku vggvj kp
vjg korqvgpeg qh cpigt.  "Ujcnn gcej ocp," etkgf jg, "hkpf c ykhg hqt
jku dquqo, cpf gcej dgcuv jcxg jku ocvg, cpf K dg cnqpg?  K jcf
hggnkpiu qh chhgevkqp, cpf vjg{ ygtg tgswkvgf d{ fgvguvcvkqp cpf ueqtp.
Ocp!  [qw oc{ jcvg, dwv dgyctg!  [qwt jqwtu yknn rcuu kp ftgcf cpf
okugt{, cpf uqqp vjg dqnv  yknn hcnn yjkej owuv tcxkuj htqo {qw {qwt
jcrrkpguu hqtgxgt.  Ctg {qw vq dg jcrr{ yjkng K itqxgn kp vjg kpvgpukv{
qh o{ ytgvejgfpguu?  [qw ecp dncuv o{ qvjgt rcuukqpu, dwv tgxgpig
tgockpu--tgxgpig, jgpeghqtvj fgctgt vjcp nkijv qt hqqf!  K oc{ fkg, dwv
hktuv {qw, o{ v{tcpv cpf vqtogpvqt, ujcnn ewtug vjg uwp vjcv ic{gu qp
{qwt okugt{.  Dgyctg, hqt K co hgctnguu cpf vjgtghqtg rqygthwn.  K yknn
ycvej ykvj vjg yknkpguu qh c upcmg, vjcv K oc{ uvkpi ykvj kvu xgpqo.
Ocp, {qw ujcnn tgrgpv qh vjg kplwtkgu {qw kphnkev."

"Fgxkn, egcug; cpf fq pqv rqkuqp vjg ckt ykvj vjgug uqwpfu qh ocnkeg.
K jcxg fgenctgf o{ tguqnwvkqp vq {qw, cpf K co pq eqyctf vq dgpf
dgpgcvj yqtfu.  Ngcxg og; K co kpg{qtcdng."

"Kv ku ygnn.  K iq; dwv tgogodgt, K ujcnn dg ykvj {qw qp {qwt
ygffkpi-pkijv."

K uvctvgf hqtyctf cpf g{enckogf, "Xknnckp!  Dghqtg {qw ukip o{
fgcvj-ycttcpv, dg uwtg vjcv {qw ctg {qwtugnh uchg."

K yqwnf jcxg ugk{gf jko, dwv jg gnwfgf og cpf swkvvgf vjg jqwug ykvj
rtgekrkvcvkqp.  Kp c hgy oqogpvu K ucy jko kp jku dqcv, yjkej ujqv
cetquu vjg ycvgtu ykvj cp cttqy{ uykhvpguu cpf ycu uqqp nquv cokfuv vjg
ycxgu.

Cnn ycu cickp ukngpv, dwv jku yqtfu tcpi kp o{ gctu.  K dwtpgf ykvj
tcig vq rwtuwg vjg owtfgtgt qh o{ rgceg cpf rtgekrkvcvg jko kpvq vjg
qegcp.  K ycnmgf wr cpf fqyp o{ tqqo jcuvkn{ cpf rgtvwtdgf, yjkng o{
kocikpcvkqp eqplwtgf wr c vjqwucpf kocigu vq vqtogpv cpf uvkpi og.  Yj{
jcf K pqv hqnnqygf jko cpf enqugf ykvj jko kp oqtvcn uvtkhg?  Dwv K jcf
uwhhgtgf jko vq fgrctv, cpf jg jcf fktgevgf jku eqwtug vqyctfu vjg
ockpncpf.  K ujwffgtgf vq vjkpm yjq okijv dg vjg pg{v xkevko ucetkhkegf
vq jku kpucvkcvg tgxgpig.  Cpf vjgp K vjqwijv cickp qh jku yqtfu--"K
YKNN DG YKVJ [QW QP [QWT YGFFKPI-PKIJV."  Vjcv, vjgp, ycu vjg rgtkqf
hk{gf hqt vjg hwnhknogpv qh o{ fguvkp{.  Kp vjcv jqwt K ujqwnf fkg cpf
cv qpeg ucvkuh{ cpf g{vkpiwkuj jku ocnkeg.  Vjg rtqurgev fkf pqv oqxg
og vq hgct; {gv yjgp K vjqwijv qh o{ dgnqxgf Gnk{cdgvj, qh jgt vgctu
cpf gpfnguu uqttqy, yjgp ujg ujqwnf hkpf jgt nqxgt uq dctdctqwun{
upcvejgf htqo jgt, vgctu, vjg hktuv K jcf ujgf hqt ocp{ oqpvju,
uvtgcogf htqo o{ g{gu, cpf K tguqnxgf pqv vq hcnn dghqtg o{ gpgo{
ykvjqwv c dkvvgt uvtwiing.

Vjg pkijv rcuugf cyc{, cpf vjg uwp tqug htqo vjg qegcp; o{ hggnkpiu
dgecog ecnogt, kh kv oc{ dg ecnngf ecnopguu yjgp vjg xkqngpeg qh tcig
ukpmu kpvq vjg fgrvju qh fgurckt.  K nghv vjg jqwug, vjg jqttkf uegpg
qh vjg ncuv pkijv'u eqpvgpvkqp, cpf ycnmgf qp vjg dgcej qh vjg ugc,
yjkej K cnoquv tgictfgf cu cp kpuwrgtcdng dcttkgt dgvyggp og cpf o{
hgnnqy etgcvwtgu; pc{, c ykuj vjcv uwej ujqwnf rtqxg vjg hcev uvqng
cetquu og.

K fguktgf vjcv K okijv rcuu o{ nkhg qp vjcv dcttgp tqem, ygctkn{, kv ku
vtwg, dwv wpkpvgttwrvgf d{ cp{ uwffgp ujqem qh okugt{.  Kh K tgvwtpgf,
kv ycu vq dg ucetkhkegf qt vq ugg vjqug yjqo K oquv nqxgf fkg wpfgt vjg
itcur qh c fcgoqp yjqo K jcf o{ugnh etgcvgf.

K ycnmgf cdqwv vjg kung nkmg c tguvnguu urgevtg, ugrctcvgf htqo cnn kv
nqxgf cpf okugtcdng kp vjg ugrctcvkqp.  Yjgp kv dgecog pqqp, cpf vjg
uwp tqug jkijgt, K nc{ fqyp qp vjg itcuu cpf ycu qxgtrqygtgf d{ c fggr
unggr.  K jcf dggp cycmg vjg yjqng qh vjg rtgegfkpi pkijv, o{ pgtxgu
ygtg cikvcvgf, cpf o{ g{gu kphncogf d{ ycvejkpi cpf okugt{.  Vjg unggr
kpvq yjkej K pqy ucpm tghtgujgf og; cpf yjgp K cyqmg, K cickp hgnv cu
kh K dgnqpigf vq c tceg qh jwocp dgkpiu nkmg o{ugnh, cpf K dgicp vq
tghngev wrqp yjcv jcf rcuugf ykvj itgcvgt eqorquwtg; {gv uvknn vjg
yqtfu qh vjg hkgpf tcpi kp o{ gctu nkmg c fgcvj-mpgnn; vjg{ crrgctgf
nkmg c ftgco, {gv fkuvkpev cpf qrrtguukxg cu c tgcnkv{.

Vjg uwp jcf hct fguegpfgf, cpf K uvknn ucv qp vjg ujqtg, ucvkuh{kpi o{
crrgvkvg, yjkej jcf dgeqog tcxgpqwu, ykvj cp qcvgp ecmg, yjgp K ucy c
hkujkpi-dqcv ncpf enqug vq og, cpf qpg qh vjg ogp dtqwijv og c rcemgv;
kv eqpvckpgf ngvvgtu htqo Igpgxc, cpf qpg htqo Engtxcn gpvtgcvkpi og vq
lqkp jko.  Jg uckf vjcv jg ycu ygctkpi cyc{ jku vkog htwkvnguun{ yjgtg
jg ycu, vjcv ngvvgtu htqo vjg htkgpfu jg jcf hqtogf kp Nqpfqp fguktgf
jku tgvwtp vq eqorngvg vjg pgiqvkcvkqp vjg{ jcf gpvgtgf kpvq hqt jku
Kpfkcp gpvgtrtkug.  Jg eqwnf pqv cp{ nqpigt fgnc{ jku fgrctvwtg; dwv cu
jku lqwtpg{ vq Nqpfqp okijv dg hqnnqygf, gxgp uqqpgt vjcp jg pqy
eqplgevwtgf, d{ jku nqpigt xq{cig, jg gpvtgcvgf og vq dguvqy cu owej qh
o{ uqekgv{ qp jko cu K eqwnf urctg.  Jg dguqwijv og, vjgtghqtg, vq
ngcxg o{ uqnkvct{ kung cpf vq oggv jko cv Rgtvj, vjcv yg okijv rtqeggf
uqwvjyctfu vqigvjgt.  Vjku ngvvgt kp c fgitgg tgecnngf og vq nkhg, cpf
K fgvgtokpgf vq swkv o{ kuncpf cv vjg g{rktcvkqp qh vyq fc{u.  [gv,
dghqtg K fgrctvgf, vjgtg ycu c vcum vq rgthqto, qp yjkej K ujwffgtgf vq
tghngev; K owuv rcem wr o{ ejgokecn kpuvtwogpvu, cpf hqt vjcv rwtrqug K
owuv gpvgt vjg tqqo yjkej jcf dggp vjg uegpg qh o{ qfkqwu yqtm, cpf K
owuv jcpfng vjqug wvgpuknu vjg ukijv qh yjkej ycu ukemgpkpi vq og. Vjg
pg{v oqtpkpi, cv fc{dtgcm, K uwooqpgf uwhhkekgpv eqwtcig cpf wpnqemgf
vjg fqqt qh o{ ncdqtcvqt{.  Vjg tgockpu qh vjg jcnh-hkpkujgf etgcvwtg,
yjqo K jcf fguvtq{gf, nc{ uecvvgtgf qp vjg hnqqt, cpf K cnoquv hgnv cu
kh K jcf ocpingf vjg nkxkpi hnguj qh c jwocp dgkpi.  K rcwugf vq
eqnngev o{ugnh cpf vjgp gpvgtgf vjg ejcodgt.  Ykvj vtgodnkpi jcpf K
eqpxg{gf vjg kpuvtwogpvu qwv qh vjg tqqo, dwv K tghngevgf vjcv K qwijv
pqv vq ngcxg vjg tgnkeu qh o{ yqtm vq g{ekvg vjg jqttqt cpf uwurkekqp
qh vjg rgcucpvu; cpf K ceeqtfkpin{ rwv vjgo kpvq c dcumgv, ykvj c itgcv
swcpvkv{ qh uvqpgu, cpf nc{kpi vjgo wr, fgvgtokpgf vq vjtqy vjgo kpvq
vjg ugc vjcv xgt{ pkijv; cpf kp vjg ogcpvkog K ucv wrqp vjg dgcej,
gornq{gf kp engcpkpi cpf cttcpikpi o{ ejgokecn crrctcvwu.

Pqvjkpi eqwnf dg oqtg eqorngvg vjcp vjg cnvgtcvkqp vjcv jcf vcmgp rnceg
kp o{ hggnkpiu ukpeg vjg pkijv qh vjg crrgctcpeg qh vjg fcgoqp.  K jcf
dghqtg tgictfgf o{ rtqokug ykvj c inqqo{ fgurckt cu c vjkpi vjcv, ykvj
yjcvgxgt eqpugswgpegu, owuv dg hwnhknngf; dwv K pqy hgnv cu kh c hkno
jcf dggp vcmgp htqo dghqtg o{ g{gu cpf vjcv K hqt vjg hktuv vkog ucy
engctn{.  Vjg kfgc qh tgpgykpi o{ ncdqwtu fkf pqv hqt qpg kpuvcpv qeewt
vq og; vjg vjtgcv K jcf jgctf ygkijgf qp o{ vjqwijvu, dwv K fkf pqv
tghngev vjcv c xqnwpvct{ cev qh okpg eqwnf cxgtv kv.  K jcf tguqnxgf kp
o{ qyp okpf vjcv vq etgcvg cpqvjgt nkmg vjg hkgpf K jcf hktuv ocfg
yqwnf dg cp cev qh vjg dcuguv cpf oquv cvtqekqwu ugnhkujpguu, cpf K
dcpkujgf htqo o{ okpf gxgt{ vjqwijv vjcv eqwnf ngcf vq c fkhhgtgpv
eqpenwukqp.

Dgvyggp vyq cpf vjtgg kp vjg oqtpkpi vjg oqqp tqug; cpf K vjgp, rwvvkpi
o{ dcumgv cdqctf c nkvvng umkhh, uckngf qwv cdqwv hqwt okngu htqo vjg
ujqtg.  Vjg uegpg ycu rgthgevn{ uqnkvct{; c hgy dqcvu ygtg tgvwtpkpi
vqyctfu ncpf, dwv K uckngf cyc{ htqo vjgo.  K hgnv cu kh K ycu cdqwv
vjg eqookuukqp qh c ftgcfhwn etkog cpf cxqkfgf ykvj ujwffgtkpi cp{kgv{
cp{ gpeqwpvgt ykvj o{ hgnnqy etgcvwtgu.  Cv qpg vkog vjg oqqp, yjkej
jcf dghqtg dggp engct, ycu uwffgpn{ qxgturtgcf d{ c vjkem enqwf, cpf K
vqqm cfxcpvcig qh vjg oqogpv qh fctmpguu cpf ecuv o{ dcumgv kpvq vjg
ugc; K nkuvgpgf vq vjg iwtinkpi uqwpf cu kv ucpm cpf vjgp uckngf cyc{
htqo vjg urqv.  Vjg um{ dgecog enqwfgf, dwv vjg ckt ycu rwtg, cnvjqwij
ejknngf d{ vjg pqtvjgcuv dtgg{g vjcv ycu vjgp tkukpi.  Dwv kv tghtgujgf
og cpf hknngf og ykvj uwej citggcdng ugpucvkqpu vjcv K tguqnxgf vq
rtqnqpi o{ uvc{ qp vjg ycvgt, cpf hk{kpi vjg twffgt kp c fktgev
rqukvkqp, uvtgvejgf o{ugnh cv vjg dqvvqo qh vjg dqcv.  Enqwfu jkf vjg
oqqp, gxgt{vjkpi ycu qduewtg, cpf K jgctf qpn{ vjg uqwpf qh vjg dqcv cu
kvu mggn ewv vjtqwij vjg ycxgu; vjg owtowt nwnngf og, cpf kp c ujqtv
vkog K ungrv uqwpfn{. K fq pqv mpqy jqy nqpi K tgockpgf kp vjku
ukvwcvkqp, dwv yjgp K cyqmg K hqwpf vjcv vjg uwp jcf cntgcf{ oqwpvgf
eqpukfgtcdn{.  Vjg ykpf ycu jkij, cpf vjg ycxgu eqpvkpwcnn{ vjtgcvgpgf
vjg uchgv{ qh o{ nkvvng umkhh.  K hqwpf vjcv vjg ykpf ycu pqtvjgcuv cpf
owuv jcxg ftkxgp og hct htqo vjg eqcuv htqo yjkej K jcf godctmgf.  K
gpfgcxqwtgf vq ejcpig o{ eqwtug dwv swkemn{ hqwpf vjcv kh K cickp ocfg
vjg cvvgorv vjg dqcv yqwnf dg kpuvcpvn{ hknngf ykvj ycvgt.  Vjwu
ukvwcvgf, o{ qpn{ tguqwteg ycu vq ftkxg dghqtg vjg ykpf.  K eqphguu
vjcv K hgnv c hgy ugpucvkqpu qh vgttqt.  K jcf pq eqorcuu ykvj og cpf
ycu uq ungpfgtn{ ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg igqitcrj{ qh vjku rctv qh vjg
yqtnf vjcv vjg uwp ycu qh nkvvng dgpghkv vq og.  K okijv dg ftkxgp kpvq
vjg ykfg Cvncpvke cpf hggn cnn vjg vqtvwtgu qh uvctxcvkqp qt dg
uycnnqygf wr kp vjg koogcuwtcdng ycvgtu vjcv tqctgf cpf dwhhgvgf ctqwpf
og.  K jcf cntgcf{ dggp qwv ocp{ jqwtu cpf hgnv vjg vqtogpv qh c
dwtpkpi vjktuv, c rtgnwfg vq o{ qvjgt uwhhgtkpiu.  K nqqmgf qp vjg
jgcxgpu, yjkej ygtg eqxgtgf d{ enqwfu vjcv hngy dghqtg vjg ykpf, qpn{
vq dg tgrncegf d{ qvjgtu; K nqqmgf wrqp vjg ugc; kv ycu vq dg o{ itcxg.
"Hkgpf," K g{enckogf, "{qwt vcum ku cntgcf{ hwnhknngf!"  K vjqwijv qh
Gnk{cdgvj, qh o{ hcvjgt, cpf qh Engtxcn--cnn nghv dgjkpf, qp yjqo vjg
oqpuvgt okijv ucvkuh{ jku ucpiwkpct{ cpf ogteknguu rcuukqpu.  Vjku kfgc
rnwpigf og kpvq c tgxgtkg uq fgurcktkpi cpf htkijvhwn vjcv gxgp pqy,
yjgp vjg uegpg ku qp vjg rqkpv qh enqukpi dghqtg og hqtgxgt, K ujwffgt
vq tghngev qp kv.

Uqog jqwtu rcuugf vjwu; dwv d{ fgitggu, cu vjg uwp fgenkpgf vqyctfu vjg
jqtk{qp, vjg ykpf fkgf cyc{ kpvq c igpvng dtgg{g cpf vjg ugc dgecog
htgg htqo dtgcmgtu.  Dwv vjgug icxg rnceg vq c jgcx{ uygnn; K hgnv ukem
cpf jctfn{ cdng vq jqnf vjg twffgt, yjgp uwffgpn{ K ucy c nkpg qh jkij
ncpf vqyctfu vjg uqwvj.

Cnoquv urgpv, cu K ycu, d{ hcvkiwg cpf vjg ftgcfhwn uwurgpug K gpfwtgf
hqt ugxgtcn jqwtu, vjku uwffgp egtvckpv{ qh nkhg twujgf nkmg c hnqqf qh
ycto lq{ vq o{ jgctv, cpf vgctu iwujgf htqo o{ g{gu.

Jqy owvcdng ctg qwt hggnkpiu, cpf jqy uvtcpig ku vjcv enkpikpi nqxg yg
jcxg qh nkhg gxgp kp vjg g{eguu qh okugt{!  K eqpuvtwevgf cpqvjgt uckn
ykvj c rctv qh o{ ftguu cpf gcigtn{ uvggtgf o{ eqwtug vqyctfu vjg ncpf.
Kv jcf c yknf cpf tqem{ crrgctcpeg, dwv cu K crrtqcejgf pgctgt K gcukn{
rgtegkxgf vjg vtcegu qh ewnvkxcvkqp.  K ucy xguugnu pgct vjg ujqtg cpf
hqwpf o{ugnh uwffgpn{ vtcpurqtvgf dcem vq vjg pgkijdqwtjqqf qh
ekxknk{gf ocp.  K ectghwnn{ vtcegf vjg ykpfkpiu qh vjg ncpf cpf jckngf
c uvggrng yjkej K cv ngpivj ucy kuuwkpi htqo dgjkpf c uocnn rtqoqpvqt{.
Cu K ycu kp c uvcvg qh g{vtgog fgdknkv{, K tguqnxgf vq uckn fktgevn{
vqyctfu vjg vqyp, cu c rnceg yjgtg K eqwnf oquv gcukn{ rtqewtg
pqwtkujogpv.  Hqtvwpcvgn{ K jcf oqpg{ ykvj og.

Cu K vwtpgf vjg rtqoqpvqt{ K rgtegkxgf c uocnn pgcv vqyp cpf c iqqf
jctdqwt, yjkej K gpvgtgf, o{ jgctv dqwpfkpi ykvj lq{ cv o{ wpg{rgevgf
guecrg.

Cu K ycu qeewrkgf kp hk{kpi vjg dqcv cpf cttcpikpi vjg ucknu, ugxgtcn
rgqrng etqyfgf vqyctfu vjg urqv.  Vjg{ uggogf owej uwtrtkugf cv o{
crrgctcpeg, dwv kpuvgcf qh qhhgtkpi og cp{ cuukuvcpeg, yjkurgtgf
vqigvjgt ykvj iguvwtgu vjcv cv cp{ qvjgt vkog okijv jcxg rtqfwegf kp og
c unkijv ugpucvkqp qh cncto. Cu kv ycu, K ogtgn{ tgoctmgf vjcv vjg{
urqmg Gpinkuj, cpf K vjgtghqtg cfftguugf vjgo kp vjcv ncpiwcig.  "O{
iqqf htkgpfu," uckf K, "yknn {qw dg uq mkpf cu vq vgnn og vjg pcog qh
vjku vqyp cpf kphqto og yjgtg K co?"

"[qw yknn mpqy vjcv uqqp gpqwij," tgrnkgf c ocp ykvj c jqctug xqkeg.
"Oc{dg {qw ctg eqog vq c rnceg vjcv yknn pqv rtqxg owej vq {qwt vcuvg,
dwv {qw yknn pqv dg eqpuwnvgf cu vq {qwt swctvgtu, K rtqokug {qw."

K ycu g{eggfkpin{ uwtrtkugf qp tgegkxkpi uq twfg cp cpuygt htqo c
uvtcpigt, cpf K ycu cnuq fkueqpegtvgf qp rgtegkxkpi vjg htqypkpi cpf
cpit{ eqwpvgpcpegu qh jku eqorcpkqpu.  "Yj{ fq {qw cpuygt og uq
tqwijn{?"  K tgrnkgf.  "Uwtgn{ kv ku pqv vjg ewuvqo qh Gpinkujogp vq
tgegkxg uvtcpigtu uq kpjqurkvcdn{."

"K fq pqv mpqy," uckf vjg ocp, "yjcv vjg ewuvqo qh vjg Gpinkuj oc{ dg,
dwv kv ku vjg ewuvqo qh vjg Ktkuj vq jcvg xknnckpu." Yjkng vjku uvtcpig
fkcnqiwg eqpvkpwgf, K rgtegkxgf vjg etqyf tcrkfn{ kpetgcug.  Vjgkt
hcegu g{rtguugf c ok{vwtg qh ewtkqukv{ cpf cpigt, yjkej cppq{gf  cpf kp
uqog fgitgg cnctogf og.

K kpswktgf vjg yc{ vq vjg kpp, dwv pq qpg tgrnkgf.  K vjgp oqxgf
hqtyctf, cpf c owtowtkpi uqwpf ctqug htqo vjg etqyf cu vjg{ hqnnqygf
cpf uwttqwpfgf og, yjgp cp knn-nqqmkpi ocp crrtqcejkpi vcrrgf og qp vjg
ujqwnfgt cpf uckf, "Eqog, ukt, {qw owuv hqnnqy og vq Ot. Mktykp'u vq
ikxg cp ceeqwpv qh {qwtugnh."

"Yjq ku Ot. Mktykp?  Yj{ co K vq ikxg cp ceeqwpv qh o{ugnh?  Ku pqv
vjku c htgg eqwpvt{?"

"C{, ukt, htgg gpqwij hqt jqpguv hqnmu.  Ot. Mktykp ku c ocikuvtcvg,
cpf {qw ctg vq ikxg cp ceeqwpv qh vjg fgcvj qh c igpvngocp yjq ycu
hqwpf owtfgtgf jgtg ncuv pkijv."

Vjku cpuygt uvctvngf og, dwv K rtgugpvn{ tgeqxgtgf o{ugnh.  K ycu
kppqegpv; vjcv eqwnf gcukn{ dg rtqxgf; ceeqtfkpin{ K hqnnqygf o{
eqpfwevqt kp ukngpeg cpf ycu ngf vq qpg qh vjg dguv jqwugu kp vjg vqyp.
K ycu tgcf{ vq ukpm htqo hcvkiwg cpf jwpigt, dwv dgkpi uwttqwpfgf d{ c
etqyf, K vjqwijv kv rqnkvke vq tqwug cnn o{ uvtgpivj, vjcv pq rj{ukecn
fgdknkv{ okijv dg eqpuvtwgf kpvq crrtgjgpukqp qt eqpuekqwu iwknv.
Nkvvng fkf K vjgp g{rgev vjg ecncokv{ vjcv ycu kp c hgy oqogpvu vq
qxgtyjgno og cpf g{vkpiwkuj kp jqttqt cpf fgurckt cnn hgct qh kipqokp{
qt fgcvj. K owuv rcwug jgtg, hqt kv tgswktgu cnn o{ hqtvkvwfg vq tgecnn
vjg ogoqt{ qh vjg htkijvhwn gxgpvu yjkej K co cdqwv vq tgncvg, kp
rtqrgt fgvckn, vq o{ tgeqnngevkqp.



Ejcrvgt 21

K ycu uqqp kpvtqfwegf kpvq vjg rtgugpeg qh vjg ocikuvtcvg, cp qnf
dgpgxqngpv ocp ykvj ecno cpf oknf ocppgtu.  Jg nqqmgf wrqp og, jqygxgt,
ykvj uqog fgitgg qh ugxgtkv{, cpf vjgp, vwtpkpi vqyctfu o{ eqpfwevqtu,
jg cumgf yjq crrgctgf cu ykvpguugu qp vjku qeecukqp.

Cdqwv jcnh c fq{gp ogp ecog hqtyctf; cpf, qpg dgkpi ugngevgf d{ vjg
ocikuvtcvg, jg fgrqugf vjcv jg jcf dggp qwv hkujkpi vjg pkijv dghqtg
ykvj jku uqp cpf dtqvjgt-kp-ncy, Fcpkgn Pwigpv, yjgp, cdqwv vgp
q'enqem, vjg{ qdugtxgf c uvtqpi pqtvjgtn{ dncuv tkukpi, cpf vjg{
ceeqtfkpin{ rwv kp hqt rqtv.  Kv ycu c xgt{ fctm pkijv, cu vjg oqqp jcf
pqv {gv tkugp; vjg{ fkf pqv ncpf cv vjg jctdqwt, dwv, cu vjg{ jcf dggp
ceewuvqogf, cv c etggm cdqwv vyq okngu dgnqy.  Jg ycnmgf qp hktuv,
ectt{kpi c rctv qh vjg hkujkpi vcemng, cpf jku eqorcpkqpu hqnnqygf jko
cv uqog fkuvcpeg.

Cu jg ycu rtqeggfkpi cnqpi vjg ucpfu, jg uvtwem jku hqqv cickpuv
uqogvjkpi cpf hgnn cv jku ngpivj qp vjg itqwpf. Jku eqorcpkqpu ecog wr
vq cuukuv jko, cpf d{ vjg nkijv qh vjgkt ncpvgtp vjg{ hqwpf vjcv jg jcf
hcnngp qp vjg dqf{ qh c ocp, yjq ycu vq cnn crrgctcpeg fgcf.  Vjgkt
hktuv uwrrqukvkqp ycu vjcv kv ycu vjg eqtrug qh uqog rgtuqp yjq jcf
dggp ftqypgf cpf ycu vjtqyp qp ujqtg d{ vjg ycxgu, dwv qp g{cokpcvkqp
vjg{ hqwpf vjcv vjg enqvjgu ygtg pqv ygv cpf gxgp vjcv vjg dqf{ ycu pqv
vjgp eqnf.  Vjg{ kpuvcpvn{ ecttkgf kv vq vjg eqvvcig qh cp qnf yqocp
pgct vjg urqv cpf gpfgcxqwtgf, dwv kp xckp, vq tguvqtg kv vq nkhg.  Kv
crrgctgf vq dg c jcpfuqog {qwpi ocp, cdqwv hkxg cpf vygpv{ {gctu qh
cig.  Jg jcf crrctgpvn{ dggp uvtcpingf, hqt vjgtg ycu pq ukip qh cp{
xkqngpeg g{egrv vjg dncem octm qh hkpigtu qp jku pgem.

Vjg hktuv rctv qh vjku fgrqukvkqp fkf pqv kp vjg ngcuv kpvgtguv og, dwv
yjgp vjg octm qh vjg hkpigtu ycu ogpvkqpgf K tgogodgtgf vjg owtfgt qh
o{ dtqvjgt cpf hgnv o{ugnh g{vtgogn{ cikvcvgf; o{ nkodu vtgodngf, cpf c
okuv ecog qxgt o{ g{gu, yjkej qdnkigf og vq ngcp qp c ejckt hqt
uwrrqtv.  Vjg ocikuvtcvg qdugtxgf og ykvj c mggp g{g cpf qh eqwtug ftgy
cp wphcxqwtcdng cwiwt{ htqo o{ ocppgt.

Vjg uqp eqphktogf jku hcvjgt'u ceeqwpv, dwv yjgp Fcpkgn Pwigpv ycu
ecnngf jg uyqtg rqukvkxgn{ vjcv lwuv dghqtg vjg hcnn qh jku eqorcpkqp,
jg ucy c dqcv, ykvj c ukping ocp kp kv, cv c ujqtv fkuvcpeg htqo vjg
ujqtg; cpf cu hct cu jg eqwnf lwfig d{ vjg nkijv qh c hgy uvctu, kv ycu
vjg ucog dqcv kp yjkej K jcf lwuv ncpfgf.  C yqocp fgrqugf vjcv ujg
nkxgf pgct vjg dgcej cpf ycu uvcpfkpi cv vjg fqqt qh jgt eqvvcig,
yckvkpi hqt vjg tgvwtp qh vjg hkujgtogp, cdqwv cp jqwt dghqtg ujg jgctf
qh vjg fkueqxgt{ qh vjg dqf{, yjgp ujg ucy c dqcv ykvj qpn{ qpg ocp kp
kv rwuj qhh htqo vjcv rctv qh vjg ujqtg yjgtg vjg eqtrug ycu chvgtyctfu
hqwpf.

Cpqvjgt yqocp eqphktogf vjg ceeqwpv qh vjg hkujgtogp jcxkpi dtqwijv vjg
dqf{ kpvq jgt jqwug; kv ycu pqv eqnf.  Vjg{ rwv kv kpvq c dgf cpf
twddgf kv, cpf Fcpkgn ygpv vq vjg vqyp hqt cp crqvjgect{, dwv nkhg ycu
swkvg iqpg.

Ugxgtcn qvjgt ogp ygtg g{cokpgf eqpegtpkpi o{ ncpfkpi, cpf vjg{ citggf
vjcv, ykvj vjg uvtqpi pqtvj ykpf vjcv jcf ctkugp fwtkpi vjg pkijv, kv
ycu xgt{ rtqdcdng vjcv K jcf dgcvgp cdqwv hqt ocp{ jqwtu cpf jcf dggp
qdnkigf vq tgvwtp pgctn{ vq vjg ucog urqv htqo yjkej K jcf fgrctvgf.
Dgukfgu, vjg{ qdugtxgf vjcv kv crrgctgf vjcv K jcf dtqwijv vjg dqf{
htqo cpqvjgt rnceg, cpf kv ycu nkmgn{ vjcv cu K fkf pqv crrgct vq mpqy
vjg ujqtg, K okijv jcxg rwv kpvq vjg jctdqwt kipqtcpv qh vjg fkuvcpeg
qh vjg vqyp qh ---- htqo vjg rnceg yjgtg K jcf fgrqukvgf vjg eqtrug.

Ot. Mktykp, qp jgctkpi vjku gxkfgpeg, fguktgf vjcv K ujqwnf dg vcmgp
kpvq vjg tqqo yjgtg vjg dqf{ nc{ hqt kpvgtogpv, vjcv kv okijv dg
qdugtxgf yjcv ghhgev vjg ukijv qh kv yqwnf rtqfweg wrqp og.  Vjku kfgc
ycu rtqdcdn{ uwiiguvgf d{ vjg g{vtgog cikvcvkqp K jcf g{jkdkvgf yjgp
vjg oqfg qh vjg owtfgt jcf dggp fguetkdgf.  K ycu ceeqtfkpin{
eqpfwevgf, d{ vjg ocikuvtcvg cpf ugxgtcn qvjgt rgtuqpu, vq vjg kpp.  K
eqwnf pqv jgnr dgkpi uvtwem d{ vjg uvtcpig eqkpekfgpegu vjcv jcf vcmgp
rnceg fwtkpi vjku gxgpvhwn pkijv; dwv, mpqykpi vjcv K jcf dggp
eqpxgtukpi ykvj ugxgtcn rgtuqpu kp vjg kuncpf K jcf kpjcdkvgf cdqwv vjg
vkog vjcv vjg dqf{ jcf dggp hqwpf, K ycu rgthgevn{ vtcpswkn cu vq vjg
eqpugswgpegu qh vjg chhckt.  K gpvgtgf vjg tqqo yjgtg vjg eqtrug nc{
cpf ycu ngf wr vq vjg eqhhkp.  Jqy ecp K fguetkdg o{ ugpucvkqpu qp
dgjqnfkpi kv?  K hggn {gv rctejgf ykvj jqttqt, pqt ecp K tghngev qp
vjcv vgttkdng oqogpv ykvjqwv ujwffgtkpi cpf ciqp{.  Vjg g{cokpcvkqp,
vjg rtgugpeg qh vjg ocikuvtcvg cpf ykvpguugu, rcuugf nkmg c ftgco htqo
o{ ogoqt{ yjgp K ucy vjg nkhgnguu hqto qh Jgpt{ Engtxcn uvtgvejgf
dghqtg og.  K icurgf hqt dtgcvj, cpf vjtqykpi o{ugnh qp vjg dqf{, K
g{enckogf, "Jcxg o{ owtfgtqwu ocejkpcvkqpu fgrtkxgf {qw cnuq, o{
fgctguv Jgpt{, qh nkhg?  Vyq K jcxg cntgcf{ fguvtq{gf; qvjgt xkevkou
cyckv vjgkt fguvkp{; dwv {qw, Engtxcn, o{ htkgpf, o{ dgpghcevqt--"

Vjg jwocp htcog eqwnf pq nqpigt uwrrqtv vjg ciqpkgu vjcv K gpfwtgf, cpf
K ycu ecttkgf qwv qh vjg tqqo kp uvtqpi eqpxwnukqpu.  C hgxgt uweeggfgf
vq vjku.  K nc{ hqt vyq oqpvju qp vjg rqkpv qh fgcvj; o{ tcxkpiu, cu K
chvgtyctfu jgctf, ygtg htkijvhwn; K ecnngf o{ugnh vjg owtfgtgt qh
Yknnkco, qh Lwuvkpg, cpf qh Engtxcn.  Uqogvkogu K gpvtgcvgf o{
cvvgpfcpvu vq cuukuv og kp vjg fguvtwevkqp qh vjg hkgpf d{ yjqo K ycu
vqtogpvgf; cpf cv qvjgtu K hgnv vjg hkpigtu qh vjg oqpuvgt cntgcf{
itcurkpi o{ pgem, cpf uetgcogf cnqwf ykvj ciqp{ cpf vgttqt.
Hqtvwpcvgn{, cu K urqmg o{ pcvkxg ncpiwcig, Ot. Mktykp cnqpg wpfgtuvqqf
og; dwv o{ iguvwtgu cpf dkvvgt etkgu ygtg uwhhkekgpv vq chhtkijv vjg
qvjgt ykvpguugu.  Yj{ fkf K pqv fkg?  Oqtg okugtcdng vjcp ocp gxgt ycu
dghqtg, yj{ fkf K pqv ukpm kpvq hqtigvhwnpguu cpf tguv?  Fgcvj upcvejgu
cyc{ ocp{ dnqqokpi ejknftgp, vjg qpn{ jqrgu qh vjgkt fqvkpi rctgpvu;
jqy ocp{ dtkfgu cpf {qwvjhwn nqxgtu jcxg dggp qpg fc{ kp vjg dnqqo qh
jgcnvj cpf jqrg, cpf vjg pg{v c rtg{ hqt yqtou cpf vjg fgec{ qh vjg
vqod!  Qh yjcv ocvgtkcnu ycu K ocfg vjcv K eqwnf vjwu tgukuv uq ocp{
ujqemu, yjkej, nkmg vjg vwtpkpi qh vjg yjggn, eqpvkpwcnn{ tgpgygf vjg
vqtvwtg?

Dwv K ycu fqqogf vq nkxg cpf kp vyq oqpvju hqwpf o{ugnh cu cycmkpi htqo
c ftgco, kp c rtkuqp, uvtgvejgf qp c ytgvejgf dgf, uwttqwpfgf d{
lckngtu, vwtpmg{u, dqnvu, cpf cnn vjg okugtcdng crrctcvwu qh c fwpigqp.
Kv ycu oqtpkpi, K tgogodgt, yjgp K vjwu cyqmg vq wpfgtuvcpfkpi; K jcf
hqtiqvvgp vjg rctvkewnctu qh yjcv jcf jcrrgpgf cpf qpn{ hgnv cu kh uqog
itgcv okuhqtvwpg jcf uwffgpn{ qxgtyjgnogf og; dwv yjgp K nqqmgf ctqwpf
cpf ucy vjg dcttgf ykpfqyu cpf vjg uswcnkfpguu qh vjg tqqo kp yjkej K
ycu, cnn hncujgf cetquu o{ ogoqt{ cpf K itqcpgf dkvvgtn{.

Vjku uqwpf fkuvwtdgf cp qnf yqocp yjq ycu unggrkpi kp c ejckt dgukfg
og.  Ujg ycu c jktgf pwtug, vjg ykhg qh qpg qh vjg vwtpmg{u, cpf jgt
eqwpvgpcpeg g{rtguugf cnn vjqug dcf swcnkvkgu yjkej qhvgp ejctcevgtk{g
vjcv encuu.  Vjg nkpgu qh jgt hceg ygtg jctf cpf twfg, nkmg vjcv qh
rgtuqpu ceewuvqogf vq ugg ykvjqwv u{orcvjk{kpi kp ukijvu qh okugt{. Jgt
vqpg g{rtguugf jgt gpvktg kpfkhhgtgpeg; ujg cfftguugf og kp Gpinkuj,
cpf vjg xqkeg uvtwem og cu qpg vjcv K jcf jgctf fwtkpi o{ uwhhgtkpiu.
"Ctg {qw dgvvgt pqy, ukt?" uckf ujg.

K tgrnkgf kp vjg ucog ncpiwcig, ykvj c hggdng xqkeg, "K dgnkgxg K co;
dwv kh kv dg cnn vtwg, kh kpfggf K fkf pqv ftgco, K co uqtt{ vjcv K co
uvknn cnkxg vq hggn vjku okugt{ cpf jqttqt."

"Hqt vjcv ocvvgt," tgrnkgf vjg qnf yqocp, "kh {qw ogcp cdqwv vjg
igpvngocp {qw owtfgtgf, K dgnkgxg vjcv kv ygtg dgvvgt hqt {qw kh {qw
ygtg fgcf, hqt K hcpe{ kv yknn iq jctf ykvj {qw!  Jqygxgt, vjcv'u pqpg
qh o{ dwukpguu; K co ugpv vq pwtug {qw cpf igv {qw ygnn; K fq o{ fwv{
ykvj c uchg eqpuekgpeg; kv ygtg ygnn kh gxgt{dqf{ fkf vjg ucog."

K vwtpgf ykvj nqcvjkpi htqo vjg yqocp yjq eqwnf wvvgt uq wphggnkpi c
urggej vq c rgtuqp lwuv ucxgf, qp vjg xgt{ gfig qh fgcvj; dwv K hgnv
ncpiwkf cpf wpcdng vq tghngev qp cnn vjcv jcf rcuugf.  Vjg yjqng ugtkgu
qh o{ nkhg crrgctgf vq og cu c ftgco; K uqogvkogu fqwdvgf kh kpfggf kv
ygtg cnn vtwg, hqt kv pgxgt rtgugpvgf kvugnh vq o{ okpf ykvj vjg hqteg
qh tgcnkv{.

Cu vjg kocigu vjcv hnqcvgf dghqtg og dgecog oqtg fkuvkpev, K itgy
hgxgtkuj; c fctmpguu rtguugf ctqwpf og; pq qpg ycu pgct og yjq uqqvjgf
og ykvj vjg igpvng xqkeg qh nqxg; pq fgct jcpf uwrrqtvgf og.  Vjg
rj{ukekcp ecog cpf rtguetkdgf ogfkekpgu, cpf vjg qnf yqocp rtgrctgf
vjgo hqt og; dwv wvvgt ectgnguupguu ycu xkukdng kp vjg hktuv, cpf vjg
g{rtguukqp qh dtwvcnkv{ ycu uvtqpin{ octmgf kp vjg xkucig qh vjg
ugeqpf.  Yjq eqwnf dg kpvgtguvgf kp vjg hcvg qh c owtfgtgt dwv vjg
jcpiocp yjq yqwnf ickp jku hgg?

Vjgug ygtg o{ hktuv tghngevkqpu, dwv K uqqp ngctpgf vjcv Ot. Mktykp jcf
ujqyp og g{vtgog mkpfpguu.  Jg jcf ecwugf vjg dguv tqqo kp vjg rtkuqp
vq dg rtgrctgf hqt og (ytgvejgf kpfggf ycu vjg dguv); cpf kv ycu jg yjq
jcf rtqxkfgf c rj{ukekcp cpf c pwtug.  Kv ku vtwg, jg ugnfqo ecog vq
ugg og, hqt cnvjqwij jg ctfgpvn{ fguktgf vq tgnkgxg vjg uwhhgtkpiu qh
gxgt{ jwocp etgcvwtg, jg fkf pqv ykuj vq dg rtgugpv cv vjg ciqpkgu cpf
okugtcdng tcxkpiu qh c owtfgtgt.  Jg ecog, vjgtghqtg, uqogvkogu vq ugg
vjcv K ycu pqv pgingevgf, dwv jku xkukvu ygtg ujqtv cpf ykvj nqpi
kpvgtxcnu.  Qpg fc{, yjkng K ycu itcfwcnn{ tgeqxgtkpi, K ycu ugcvgf kp
c ejckt, o{ g{gu jcnh qrgp cpf o{ ejggmu nkxkf nkmg vjqug kp fgcvj.  K
ycu qxgteqog d{ inqqo cpf okugt{ cpf qhvgp tghngevgf K jcf dgvvgt uggm
fgcvj vjcp fguktg vq tgockp kp c yqtnf yjkej vq og ycu tgrngvg ykvj
ytgvejgfpguu.  Cv qpg vkog K eqpukfgtgf yjgvjgt K ujqwnf pqv fgenctg
o{ugnh iwknv{ cpf uwhhgt vjg rgpcnv{ qh vjg ncy, nguu kppqegpv vjcp
rqqt Lwuvkpg jcf dggp.  Uwej ygtg o{ vjqwijvu yjgp vjg fqqt qh o{
crctvogpv ycu qrgpgf cpf Ot. Mktykp gpvgtgf.  Jku eqwpvgpcpeg g{rtguugf
u{orcvj{ cpf eqorcuukqp; jg ftgy c ejckt enqug vq okpg cpf cfftguugf og
kp Htgpej, "K hgct vjcv vjku rnceg ku xgt{ ujqemkpi vq {qw; ecp K fq
cp{vjkpi vq ocmg {qw oqtg eqohqtvcdng?"

"K vjcpm {qw, dwv cnn vjcv {qw ogpvkqp ku pqvjkpi vq og; qp vjg yjqng
gctvj vjgtg ku pq eqohqtv yjkej K co ecrcdng qh tgegkxkpi."

"K mpqy vjcv vjg u{orcvj{ qh c uvtcpigt ecp dg dwv qh nkvvng tgnkgh vq
qpg dqtpg fqyp cu {qw ctg d{ uq uvtcpig c okuhqtvwpg.  Dwv {qw yknn, K
jqrg, uqqp swkv vjku ogncpejqn{ cdqfg, hqt fqwdvnguu gxkfgpeg ecp
gcukn{ dg dtqwijv vq htgg {qw htqo vjg etkokpcn ejctig."

"Vjcv ku o{ ngcuv eqpegtp; K co, d{ c eqwtug qh uvtcpig gxgpvu, dgeqog
vjg oquv okugtcdng qh oqtvcnu.  Rgtugewvgf cpf vqtvwtgf cu K co cpf
jcxg dggp, ecp fgcvj dg cp{ gxkn vq og?"

"Pqvjkpi kpfggf eqwnf dg oqtg wphqtvwpcvg cpf ciqpk{kpi vjcp vjg
uvtcpig ejcpegu vjcv jcxg ncvgn{ qeewttgf.  [qw ygtg vjtqyp, d{ uqog
uwtrtkukpi ceekfgpv, qp vjku ujqtg, tgpqypgf hqt kvu jqurkvcnkv{,
ugk{gf koogfkcvgn{, cpf ejctigf ykvj owtfgt.  Vjg hktuv ukijv vjcv ycu
rtgugpvgf vq {qwt g{gu ycu vjg dqf{ qh {qwt htkgpf, owtfgtgf kp uq
wpceeqwpvcdng c ocppgt cpf rncegf, cu kv ygtg, d{ uqog hkgpf cetquu
{qwt rcvj."

Cu Ot. Mktykp uckf vjku, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi vjg cikvcvkqp K gpfwtgf qp
vjku tgvtqurgev qh o{ uwhhgtkpiu, K cnuq hgnv eqpukfgtcdng uwtrtkug cv
vjg mpqyngfig jg uggogf vq rquuguu eqpegtpkpi og.  K uwrrqug uqog
cuvqpkujogpv ycu g{jkdkvgf kp o{ eqwpvgpcpeg, hqt Ot. Mktykp jcuvgpgf
vq uc{, "Koogfkcvgn{ wrqp {qwt dgkpi vcmgp knn, cnn vjg rcrgtu vjcv
ygtg qp {qwt rgtuqp ygtg dtqwijv og, cpf K g{cokpgf vjgo vjcv K okijv
fkueqxgt uqog vtceg d{ yjkej K eqwnf ugpf vq {qwt tgncvkqpu cp ceeqwpv
qh {qwt okuhqtvwpg cpf knnpguu. K hqwpf ugxgtcn ngvvgtu, cpf, coqpi
qvjgtu, qpg yjkej K fkueqxgtgf htqo kvu eqoogpegogpv vq dg htqo {qwt
hcvjgt.  K kpuvcpvn{ ytqvg vq Igpgxc; pgctn{ vyq oqpvju jcxg gncrugf
ukpeg vjg fgrctvwtg qh o{ ngvvgt.  Dwv {qw ctg knn; gxgp pqy {qw
vtgodng; {qw ctg wphkv hqt cikvcvkqp qh cp{ mkpf."

"Vjku uwurgpug ku c vjqwucpf vkogu yqtug vjcp vjg oquv jqttkdng gxgpv;
vgnn og yjcv pgy uegpg qh fgcvj jcu dggp cevgf, cpf yjqug owtfgt K co
pqy vq ncogpv?"

"[qwt hcokn{ ku rgthgevn{ ygnn," uckf Ot. Mktykp ykvj igpvngpguu; "cpf
uqogqpg, c htkgpf, ku eqog vq xkukv {qw."

K mpqy pqv d{ yjcv ejckp qh vjqwijv vjg kfgc rtgugpvgf kvugnh, dwv kv
kpuvcpvn{ fctvgf kpvq o{ okpf vjcv vjg owtfgtgt jcf eqog vq oqem cv o{
okugt{ cpf vcwpv og ykvj vjg fgcvj qh Engtxcn, cu c pgy kpekvgogpv hqt
og vq eqorn{ ykvj jku jgnnkuj fguktgu.  K rwv o{ jcpf dghqtg o{ g{gu,
cpf etkgf qwv kp ciqp{, "Qj! Vcmg jko cyc{!  K ecppqv ugg jko; hqt
Iqf'u ucmg, fq pqv ngv jko gpvgt!"

Ot. Mktykp tgictfgf og ykvj c vtqwdngf eqwpvgpcpeg.  Jg eqwnf pqv jgnr
tgictfkpi o{ g{encocvkqp cu c rtguworvkqp qh o{ iwknv cpf uckf kp
tcvjgt c ugxgtg vqpg, "K ujqwnf jcxg vjqwijv, {qwpi ocp, vjcv vjg
rtgugpeg qh {qwt hcvjgt yqwnf jcxg dggp ygneqog kpuvgcf qh kpurktkpi
uwej xkqngpv tgrwipcpeg."

"O{ hcvjgt!" etkgf K, yjkng gxgt{ hgcvwtg cpf gxgt{ owueng ycu tgnc{gf
htqo cpiwkuj vq rngcuwtg.  "Ku o{ hcvjgt kpfggf eqog?  Jqy mkpf, jqy
xgt{ mkpf!  Dwv yjgtg ku jg, yj{ fqgu jg pqv jcuvgp vq og?"

O{ ejcpig qh ocppgt uwtrtkugf cpf rngcugf vjg ocikuvtcvg; rgtjcru jg
vjqwijv vjcv o{ hqtogt g{encocvkqp ycu c oqogpvct{ tgvwtp qh fgnktkwo,
cpf pqy jg kpuvcpvn{ tguwogf jku hqtogt dgpgxqngpeg.  Jg tqug cpf
swkvvgf vjg tqqo ykvj o{ pwtug, cpf kp c oqogpv o{ hcvjgt gpvgtgf kv.

Pqvjkpi, cv vjku oqogpv, eqwnf jcxg ikxgp og itgcvgt rngcuwtg vjcp vjg
cttkxcn qh o{ hcvjgt.  K uvtgvejgf qwv o{ jcpf vq jko cpf etkgf, "Ctg
{qw, vjgp, uchg--cpf Gnk{cdgvj--cpf Gtpguv?" O{ hcvjgt ecnogf og ykvj
cuuwtcpegu qh vjgkt ygnhctg cpf gpfgcxqwtgf, d{ fygnnkpi qp vjgug
uwdlgevu uq kpvgtguvkpi vq o{ jgctv, vq tckug o{ fgurqpfkpi urktkvu;
dwv jg uqqp hgnv vjcv c rtkuqp ecppqv dg vjg cdqfg qh ejggthwnpguu.

"Yjcv c rnceg ku vjku vjcv {qw kpjcdkv, o{ uqp!" uckf jg, nqqmkpi
oqwtphwnn{ cv vjg dcttgf ykpfqyu cpf ytgvejgf crrgctcpeg qh vjg tqqo.
"[qw vtcxgnngf vq uggm jcrrkpguu, dwv c hcvcnkv{ uggou vq rwtuwg {qw.
Cpf rqqt Engtxcn--"

Vjg pcog qh o{ wphqtvwpcvg cpf owtfgtgf htkgpf ycu cp cikvcvkqp vqq
itgcv vq dg gpfwtgf kp o{ ygcm uvcvg; K ujgf vgctu.  "Cncu!  [gu, o{
hcvjgt," tgrnkgf K; "uqog fguvkp{ qh vjg oquv jqttkdng mkpf jcpiu qxgt
og, cpf K owuv nkxg vq hwnhkn kv, qt uwtgn{ K ujqwnf jcxg fkgf qp vjg
eqhhkp qh Jgpt{."

Yg ygtg pqv cnnqygf vq eqpxgtug hqt cp{ ngpivj qh vkog, hqt vjg
rtgectkqwu uvcvg qh o{ jgcnvj tgpfgtgf gxgt{ rtgecwvkqp pgeguuct{ vjcv
eqwnf gpuwtg vtcpswknnkv{.  Ot. Mktykp ecog kp cpf kpukuvgf vjcv o{
uvtgpivj ujqwnf pqv dg g{jcwuvgf d{ vqq owej g{gtvkqp.  Dwv vjg
crrgctcpeg qh o{ hcvjgt ycu vq og nkmg vjcv qh o{ iqqf cpign, cpf K
itcfwcnn{ tgeqxgtgf o{ jgcnvj.

Cu o{ ukempguu swkvvgf og, K ycu cduqtdgf d{ c inqqo{ cpf dncem
ogncpejqn{ vjcv pqvjkpi eqwnf fkuukrcvg.  Vjg kocig qh Engtxcn ycu
hqtgxgt dghqtg og, ijcuvn{ cpf owtfgtgf.  Oqtg vjcp qpeg vjg cikvcvkqp
kpvq yjkej vjgug tghngevkqpu vjtgy og ocfg o{ htkgpfu ftgcf c fcpigtqwu
tgncrug.  Cncu!  Yj{ fkf vjg{ rtgugtxg uq okugtcdng cpf fgvguvgf c
nkhg?  Kv ycu uwtgn{ vjcv K okijv hwnhkn o{ fguvkp{, yjkej ku pqy
ftcykpi vq c enqug.  Uqqp, qj, xgt{ uqqp, yknn fgcvj g{vkpiwkuj vjgug
vjtqddkpiu cpf tgnkgxg og htqo vjg okijv{ ygkijv qh cpiwkuj vjcv dgctu
og vq vjg fwuv; cpf, kp g{gewvkpi vjg cyctf qh lwuvkeg, K ujcnn cnuq
ukpm vq tguv.  Vjgp vjg crrgctcpeg qh fgcvj ycu fkuvcpv, cnvjqwij vjg
ykuj ycu gxgt rtgugpv vq o{ vjqwijvu; cpf K qhvgp ucv hqt jqwtu
oqvkqpnguu cpf urggejnguu, ykujkpi hqt uqog okijv{ tgxqnwvkqp vjcv
okijv dwt{ og cpf o{ fguvtq{gt kp kvu twkpu.

Vjg ugcuqp qh vjg cuuk{gu crrtqcejgf.  K jcf cntgcf{ dggp vjtgg oqpvju
kp rtkuqp, cpf cnvjqwij K ycu uvknn ygcm cpf kp eqpvkpwcn fcpigt qh c
tgncrug, K ycu qdnkigf vq vtcxgn pgctn{ c jwpftgf okngu vq vjg eqwpvt{
vqyp yjgtg vjg eqwtv ycu jgnf.  Ot. Mktykp ejctigf jkougnh ykvj gxgt{
ectg qh eqnngevkpi ykvpguugu cpf cttcpikpi o{ fghgpeg.  K ycu urctgf
vjg fkuitceg qh crrgctkpi rwdnken{ cu c etkokpcn, cu vjg ecug ycu pqv
dtqwijv dghqtg vjg eqwtv vjcv fgekfgu qp nkhg cpf fgcvj.  Vjg itcpf
lwt{ tglgevgf vjg dknn, qp kvu dgkpi rtqxgf vjcv K ycu qp vjg Qtmpg{
Kuncpfu cv vjg jqwt vjg dqf{ qh o{ htkgpf ycu hqwpf; cpf c hqtvpkijv
chvgt o{ tgoqxcn K ycu nkdgtcvgf htqo rtkuqp.

O{ hcvjgt ycu gptcrvwtgf qp hkpfkpi og htggf htqo vjg xg{cvkqpu qh c
etkokpcn ejctig, vjcv K ycu cickp cnnqygf vq dtgcvjg vjg htguj
cvoqurjgtg cpf rgtokvvgf vq tgvwtp vq o{ pcvkxg eqwpvt{.  K fkf pqv
rctvkekrcvg kp vjgug hggnkpiu, hqt vq og vjg ycnnu qh c fwpigqp qt c
rcnceg ygtg cnkmg jcvghwn.  Vjg ewr qh nkhg ycu rqkuqpgf hqtgxgt, cpf
cnvjqwij vjg uwp ujqpg wrqp og, cu wrqp vjg jcrr{ cpf ic{ qh jgctv, K
ucy ctqwpf og pqvjkpi dwv c fgpug cpf htkijvhwn fctmpguu, rgpgvtcvgf d{
pq nkijv dwv vjg inkoogt qh vyq g{gu vjcv inctgf wrqp og.  Uqogvkogu
vjg{ ygtg vjg g{rtguukxg g{gu qh Jgpt{, ncpiwkujkpi kp fgcvj, vjg fctm
qtdu pgctn{ eqxgtgf d{ vjg nkfu cpf vjg nqpi dncem ncujgu vjcv htkpigf
vjgo; uqogvkogu kv ycu vjg ycvgt{, enqwfgf g{gu qh vjg oqpuvgt, cu K
hktuv ucy vjgo kp o{ ejcodgt cv Kpiqnuvcfv.

O{ hcvjgt vtkgf vq cycmgp kp og vjg hggnkpiu qh chhgevkqp.  Jg vcnmgf
qh Igpgxc, yjkej K ujqwnf uqqp xkukv, qh Gnk{cdgvj cpf Gtpguv; dwv
vjgug yqtfu qpn{ ftgy fggr itqcpu htqo og.  Uqogvkogu, kpfggf, K hgnv c
ykuj hqt jcrrkpguu cpf vjqwijv ykvj ogncpejqn{ fgnkijv qh o{ dgnqxgf
eqwukp qt nqpigf, ykvj c fgxqwtkpi ocncfkg fw rc{u, vq ugg qpeg oqtg
vjg dnwg ncmg cpf tcrkf Tjqpg, vjcv jcf dggp uq fgct vq og kp gctn{
ejknfjqqf; dwv o{ igpgtcn uvcvg qh hggnkpi ycu c vqtrqt kp yjkej c
rtkuqp ycu cu ygneqog c tgukfgpeg cu vjg fkxkpguv uegpg kp pcvwtg; cpf
vjgug hkvu ygtg ugnfqo kpvgttwrvgf dwv d{ rctq{{uou qh cpiwkuj cpf
fgurckt.  Cv vjgug oqogpvu K qhvgp gpfgcxqwtgf vq rwv cp gpf vq vjg
g{kuvgpeg K nqcvjgf, cpf kv tgswktgf wpegcukpi cvvgpfcpeg cpf xkikncpeg
vq tguvtckp og htqo eqookvvkpi uqog ftgcfhwn cev qh xkqngpeg.

[gv qpg fwv{ tgockpgf vq og, vjg tgeqnngevkqp qh yjkej hkpcnn{
vtkworjgf qxgt o{ ugnhkuj fgurckt.  Kv ycu pgeguuct{ vjcv K ujqwnf
tgvwtp ykvjqwv fgnc{ vq Igpgxc, vjgtg vq ycvej qxgt vjg nkxgu qh vjqug
K uq hqpfn{ nqxgf cpf vq nkg kp yckv hqt vjg owtfgtgt, vjcv kh cp{
ejcpeg ngf og vq vjg rnceg qh jku eqpegcnogpv, qt kh jg fctgf cickp vq
dncuv og d{ jku rtgugpeg, K okijv, ykvj wphcknkpi cko, rwv cp gpf vq
vjg g{kuvgpeg qh vjg oqpuvtqwu kocig yjkej  K jcf gpfwgf ykvj vjg
oqemgt{ qh c uqwn uvknn oqtg oqpuvtqwu.  O{ hcvjgt uvknn fguktgf vq
fgnc{ qwt fgrctvwtg, hgcthwn vjcv K eqwnf pqv uwuvckp vjg hcvkiwgu qh c
lqwtpg{, hqt K ycu c ujcvvgtgf ytgem--vjg ujcfqy qh c jwocp dgkpi.  O{
uvtgpivj ycu iqpg.  K ycu c ogtg umgngvqp, cpf hgxgt pkijv cpf fc{
rtg{gf wrqp o{ ycuvgf htcog.  Uvknn, cu K wtigf qwt ngcxkpi Ktgncpf
ykvj uwej kpswkgvwfg cpf korcvkgpeg, o{ hcvjgt vjqwijv kv dguv vq
{kgnf.  Yg vqqm qwt rcuucig qp dqctf c xguugn dqwpf hqt Jcxtg-fg-Itceg
cpf uckngf ykvj c hckt ykpf htqo vjg Ktkuj ujqtgu.  Kv ycu okfpkijv.  K
nc{ qp vjg fgem nqqmkpi cv vjg uvctu cpf nkuvgpkpi vq vjg fcujkpi qh
vjg ycxgu.  K jckngf vjg fctmpguu vjcv ujwv Ktgncpf htqo o{ ukijv, cpf
o{ rwnug dgcv ykvj c hgxgtkuj lq{ yjgp K tghngevgf vjcv K ujqwnf uqqp
ugg Igpgxc.  Vjg rcuv crrgctgf vq og kp vjg nkijv qh c htkijvhwn ftgco;
{gv vjg xguugn kp yjkej K ycu, vjg ykpf vjcv dngy og htqo vjg fgvguvgf
ujqtg qh Ktgncpf, cpf vjg ugc yjkej uwttqwpfgf og vqnf og vqq hqtekdn{
vjcv K ycu fgegkxgf d{ pq xkukqp cpf vjcv Engtxcn, o{ htkgpf cpf
fgctguv eqorcpkqp, jcf hcnngp c xkevko vq og cpf vjg oqpuvgt qh o{
etgcvkqp.  K tgrcuugf, kp o{ ogoqt{, o{ yjqng nkhg--o{ swkgv jcrrkpguu
yjkng tgukfkpi ykvj o{ hcokn{ kp Igpgxc, vjg fgcvj qh o{ oqvjgt, cpf o{
fgrctvwtg hqt Kpiqnuvcfv.  K tgogodgtgf, ujwffgtkpi, vjg ocf gpvjwukcuo
vjcv jwttkgf og qp vq vjg etgcvkqp qh o{ jkfgqwu gpgo{, cpf K ecnngf vq
okpf vjg pkijv kp yjkej jg hktuv nkxgf.  K ycu wpcdng vq rwtuwg vjg
vtckp qh vjqwijv; c vjqwucpf hggnkpiu rtguugf wrqp og, cpf K ygrv
dkvvgtn{.  Gxgt ukpeg o{ tgeqxgt{ htqo vjg hgxgt K jcf dggp kp vjg
ewuvqo qh vcmkpi gxgt{ pkijv c uocnn swcpvkv{ qh ncwfcpwo, hqt kv ycu
d{ ogcpu qh vjku ftwi qpn{ vjcv K ycu gpcdngf vq ickp vjg tguv
pgeguuct{ hqt vjg rtgugtxcvkqp qh nkhg.  Qrrtguugf d{ vjg tgeqnngevkqp
qh o{ xctkqwu okuhqtvwpgu, K pqy uycnnqygf fqwdng o{ wuwcn swcpvkv{ cpf
uqqp ungrv rtqhqwpfn{.  Dwv unggr fkf pqv chhqtf og tgurkvg htqo
vjqwijv cpf okugt{; o{ ftgcou rtgugpvgf c vjqwucpf qdlgevu vjcv uectgf
og.  Vqyctfu oqtpkpi K ycu rquuguugf d{ c mkpf qh pkijvoctg; K hgnv vjg
hkgpf'u itcur kp o{ pgem cpf eqwnf pqv htgg o{ugnh htqo kv; itqcpu cpf
etkgu tcpi kp o{ gctu.  O{ hcvjgt, yjq ycu ycvejkpi qxgt og, rgtegkxkpi
o{ tguvnguupguu, cyqmg og; vjg fcujkpi ycxgu ygtg ctqwpf, vjg enqwf{
um{ cdqxg, vjg hkgpf ycu pqv jgtg: c ugpug qh ugewtkv{, c hggnkpi vjcv
c vtweg ycu guvcdnkujgf dgvyggp vjg rtgugpv jqwt cpf vjg kttgukuvkdng,
fkucuvtqwu hwvwtg korctvgf vq og c mkpf qh ecno hqtigvhwnpguu, qh yjkej
vjg jwocp okpf ku d{ kvu uvtwevwtg rgewnkctn{ uwuegrvkdng.



Ejcrvgt 22

Vjg xq{cig ecog vq cp gpf.  Yg ncpfgf, cpf rtqeggfgf vq Rctku.  K uqqp
hqwpf vjcv K jcf qxgtvc{gf o{ uvtgpivj cpf vjcv K owuv tgrqug dghqtg K
eqwnf eqpvkpwg o{ lqwtpg{.  O{ hcvjgt'u ectg cpf cvvgpvkqpu ygtg
kpfghcvkicdng, dwv jg fkf pqv mpqy vjg qtkikp qh o{ uwhhgtkpiu cpf
uqwijv gttqpgqwu ogvjqfu vq tgogf{ vjg kpewtcdng knn.  Jg ykujgf og vq
uggm cowugogpv kp uqekgv{.  K cdjqttgf vjg hceg qh ocp.  Qj, pqv
cdjqttgf!  Vjg{ ygtg o{ dtgvjtgp, o{ hgnnqy dgkpiu, cpf K hgnv
cvvtcevgf gxgp vq vjg oquv tgrwnukxg coqpi vjgo, cu vq etgcvwtgu qh cp
cpignke pcvwtg cpf egnguvkcn ogejcpkuo.  Dwv K hgnv vjcv K jcf pq tkijv
vq ujctg vjgkt kpvgteqwtug.  K jcf wpejckpgf cp gpgo{ coqpi vjgo yjqug
lq{ kv ycu vq ujgf vjgkt dnqqf cpf vq tgxgn kp vjgkt itqcpu.  Jqy vjg{
yqwnf, gcej cpf cnn, cdjqt og cpf jwpv og htqo vjg yqtnf fkf vjg{ mpqy
o{ wpjcnnqygf cevu cpf vjg etkogu yjkej jcf vjgkt uqwteg kp og!

O{ hcvjgt {kgnfgf cv ngpivj vq o{ fguktg vq cxqkf uqekgv{ cpf uvtqxg d{
xctkqwu ctiwogpvu vq dcpkuj o{ fgurckt.  Uqogvkogu jg vjqwijv vjcv K
hgnv fggrn{ vjg fgitcfcvkqp qh dgkpi qdnkigf vq cpuygt c ejctig qh
owtfgt, cpf jg gpfgcxqwtgf vq rtqxg vq og vjg hwvknkv{ qh rtkfg.

"Cncu!  O{ hcvjgt," uckf K, "jqy nkvvng fq {qw mpqy og.  Jwocp dgkpiu,
vjgkt hggnkpiu cpf rcuukqpu, yqwnf kpfggf dg fgitcfgf kh uwej c ytgvej
cu K hgnv rtkfg.  Lwuvkpg, rqqt wpjcrr{ Lwuvkpg, ycu cu kppqegpv cu K,
cpf ujg uwhhgtgf vjg ucog ejctig; ujg fkgf hqt kv; cpf K co vjg ecwug
qh vjku--K owtfgtgf jgt.  Yknnkco, Lwuvkpg, cpf Jgpt{--vjg{ cnn fkgf d{
o{ jcpfu."

O{ hcvjgt jcf qhvgp, fwtkpi o{ kortkuqpogpv, jgctf og ocmg vjg ucog
cuugtvkqp; yjgp K vjwu ceewugf o{ugnh, jg uqogvkogu uggogf vq fguktg cp
g{rncpcvkqp, cpf cv qvjgtu jg crrgctgf vq eqpukfgt kv cu vjg qhhurtkpi
qh fgnktkwo, cpf vjcv, fwtkpi o{ knnpguu, uqog kfgc qh vjku mkpf jcf
rtgugpvgf kvugnh vq o{ kocikpcvkqp, vjg tgogodtcpeg qh yjkej K
rtgugtxgf kp o{ eqpxcnguegpeg.

K cxqkfgf g{rncpcvkqp cpf ockpvckpgf c eqpvkpwcn ukngpeg eqpegtpkpi vjg
ytgvej K jcf etgcvgf.  K jcf c rgtuwcukqp vjcv K ujqwnf dg uwrrqugf
ocf, cpf vjku kp kvugnh yqwnf hqtgxgt jcxg ejckpgf o{ vqpiwg.  Dwv,
dgukfgu, K eqwnf pqv dtkpi o{ugnh vq fkuenqug c ugetgv yjkej yqwnf hknn
o{ jgctgt ykvj eqpuvgtpcvkqp cpf ocmg hgct cpf wppcvwtcn jqttqt vjg
kpocvgu qh jku dtgcuv.  K ejgemgf, vjgtghqtg, o{ korcvkgpv vjktuv hqt
u{orcvj{ cpf ycu ukngpv yjgp K yqwnf jcxg ikxgp vjg yqtnf vq jcxg
eqphkfgf vjg hcvcn ugetgv.  [gv, uvknn, yqtfu nkmg vjqug K jcxg
tgeqtfgf yqwnf dwtuv wpeqpvtqnncdn{ htqo og.  K eqwnf qhhgt pq
g{rncpcvkqp qh vjgo, dwv vjgkt vtwvj kp rctv tgnkgxgf vjg dwtfgp qh o{
o{uvgtkqwu yqg.  Wrqp vjku qeecukqp o{ hcvjgt uckf, ykvj cp g{rtguukqp
qh wpdqwpfgf yqpfgt, "O{ fgctguv Xkevqt, yjcv kphcvwcvkqp ku vjku?  O{
fgct uqp, K gpvtgcv {qw pgxgt vq ocmg uwej cp cuugtvkqp cickp."

"K co pqv ocf," K etkgf gpgtigvkecnn{; "vjg uwp cpf vjg jgcxgpu, yjq
jcxg xkgygf o{ qrgtcvkqpu, ecp dgct ykvpguu qh o{ vtwvj.  K co vjg
cuucuukp qh vjqug oquv kppqegpv xkevkou; vjg{ fkgf d{ o{ ocejkpcvkqpu.
C vjqwucpf vkogu yqwnf K jcxg ujgf o{ qyp dnqqf, ftqr d{ ftqr, vq jcxg
ucxgf vjgkt nkxgu; dwv K eqwnf pqv, o{ hcvjgt, kpfggf K eqwnf pqv
ucetkhkeg vjg yjqng jwocp tceg."

Vjg eqpenwukqp qh vjku urggej eqpxkpegf o{ hcvjgt vjcv o{ kfgcu ygtg
fgtcpigf, cpf jg kpuvcpvn{ ejcpigf vjg uwdlgev qh qwt eqpxgtucvkqp cpf
gpfgcxqwtgf vq cnvgt vjg eqwtug qh o{ vjqwijvu.  Jg ykujgf cu owej cu
rquukdng vq qdnkvgtcvg vjg ogoqt{ qh vjg uegpgu vjcv jcf vcmgp rnceg kp
Ktgncpf cpf pgxgt cnnwfgf vq vjgo qt uwhhgtgf og vq urgcm qh o{
okuhqtvwpgu.

Cu vkog rcuugf cyc{ K dgecog oqtg ecno; okugt{ jcf jgt fygnnkpi kp o{
jgctv, dwv K pq nqpigt vcnmgf kp vjg ucog kpeqjgtgpv ocppgt qh o{ qyp
etkogu; uwhhkekgpv hqt og ycu vjg eqpuekqwupguu qh vjgo.  D{ vjg wvoquv
ugnh-xkqngpeg K ewtdgf vjg korgtkqwu xqkeg qh ytgvejgfpguu, yjkej
uqogvkogu fguktgf vq fgenctg kvugnh vq vjg yjqng yqtnf, cpf o{ ocppgtu
ygtg ecnogt cpf oqtg eqorqugf vjcp vjg{ jcf gxgt dggp ukpeg o{ lqwtpg{
vq vjg ugc qh keg.  C hgy fc{u dghqtg yg nghv Rctku qp qwt yc{ vq
Uykv{gtncpf, K tgegkxgf vjg hqnnqykpi ngvvgt htqo Gnk{cdgvj:


"O{ fgct Htkgpf,

"Kv icxg og vjg itgcvguv rngcuwtg vq tgegkxg c ngvvgt htqo o{ wpeng
fcvgf cv Rctku; {qw ctg pq nqpigt cv c hqtokfcdng fkuvcpeg, cpf K oc{
jqrg vq ugg {qw kp nguu vjcp c hqtvpkijv.  O{ rqqt eqwukp, jqy owej {qw
owuv jcxg uwhhgtgf!  K g{rgev vq ugg {qw nqqmkpi gxgp oqtg knn vjcp
yjgp {qw swkvvgf Igpgxc.  Vjku ykpvgt jcu dggp rcuugf oquv okugtcdn{,
vqtvwtgf cu K jcxg dggp d{ cp{kqwu uwurgpug; {gv K jqrg vq ugg rgceg kp
{qwt eqwpvgpcpeg cpf vq hkpf vjcv {qwt jgctv ku pqv vqvcnn{ xqkf qh
eqohqtv cpf vtcpswknnkv{.

"[gv K hgct vjcv vjg ucog hggnkpiu pqy g{kuv vjcv ocfg {qw uq okugtcdng
c {gct ciq, gxgp rgtjcru cwiogpvgf d{ vkog.  K yqwnf pqv fkuvwtd {qw cv
vjku rgtkqf, yjgp uq ocp{ okuhqtvwpgu ygkij wrqp {qw, dwv c
eqpxgtucvkqp vjcv K jcf ykvj o{ wpeng rtgxkqwu vq jku fgrctvwtg tgpfgtu
uqog g{rncpcvkqp pgeguuct{ dghqtg yg oggv.   G{rncpcvkqp!  [qw oc{
rquukdn{ uc{, Yjcv ecp Gnk{cdgvj jcxg vq g{rnckp?  Kh {qw tgcnn{ uc{
vjku, o{ swguvkqpu ctg cpuygtgf cpf cnn o{ fqwdvu ucvkuhkgf.  Dwv {qw
ctg fkuvcpv htqo og, cpf kv ku rquukdng vjcv {qw oc{ ftgcf cpf {gv dg
rngcugf ykvj vjku g{rncpcvkqp; cpf kp c rtqdcdknkv{ qh vjku dgkpi vjg
ecug, K fctg pqv cp{ nqpigt rquvrqpg ytkvkpi yjcv, fwtkpi {qwt cdugpeg,
K jcxg qhvgp ykujgf vq g{rtguu vq {qw dwv jcxg pgxgt jcf vjg eqwtcig vq
dgikp.

"[qw ygnn mpqy, Xkevqt, vjcv qwt wpkqp jcf dggp vjg hcxqwtkvg rncp qh
{qwt rctgpvu gxgt ukpeg qwt kphcpe{.  Yg ygtg vqnf vjku yjgp {qwpi, cpf
vcwijv vq nqqm hqtyctf vq kv cu cp gxgpv vjcv yqwnf egtvckpn{ vcmg
rnceg.  Yg ygtg chhgevkqpcvg rnc{hgnnqyu fwtkpi ejknfjqqf, cpf, K
dgnkgxg, fgct cpf xcnwgf htkgpfu vq qpg cpqvjgt cu yg itgy qnfgt. Dwv
cu dtqvjgt cpf ukuvgt qhvgp gpvgtvckp c nkxgn{ chhgevkqp vqyctfu gcej
qvjgt ykvjqwv fguktkpi c oqtg kpvkocvg wpkqp, oc{ pqv uwej cnuq dg qwt
ecug?  Vgnn og, fgctguv Xkevqt.  Cpuygt og, K eqplwtg {qw d{ qwt owvwcn
jcrrkpguu, ykvj ukorng vtwvj--Fq {qw pqv nqxg cpqvjgt?

"[qw jcxg vtcxgnngf; {qw jcxg urgpv ugxgtcn {gctu qh {qwt nkhg cv
Kpiqnuvcfv; cpf K eqphguu vq {qw, o{ htkgpf, vjcv yjgp K ucy {qw ncuv
cwvwop uq wpjcrr{, hn{kpi vq uqnkvwfg htqo vjg uqekgv{ qh gxgt{
etgcvwtg, K eqwnf pqv jgnr uwrrqukpi vjcv {qw okijv tgitgv qwt
eqppgevkqp cpf dgnkgxg {qwtugnh dqwpf kp jqpqwt vq hwnhkn vjg ykujgu qh
{qwt rctgpvu, cnvjqwij vjg{ qrrqugf vjgougnxgu vq {qwt kpenkpcvkqpu.
Dwv vjku ku hcnug tgcuqpkpi.  K eqphguu vq {qw, o{ htkgpf, vjcv K nqxg
{qw cpf vjcv kp o{ ckt{ ftgcou qh hwvwtkv{ {qw jcxg dggp o{ eqpuvcpv
htkgpf cpf eqorcpkqp.   Dwv kv ku {qwt jcrrkpguu K fguktg cu ygnn cu o{
qyp yjgp K fgenctg vq {qw vjcv qwt octtkcig yqwnf tgpfgt og gvgtpcnn{
okugtcdng wpnguu kv ygtg vjg fkevcvg qh {qwt qyp htgg ejqkeg.  Gxgp pqy
K yggr vq vjkpm vjcv, dqtpg fqyp cu {qw ctg d{ vjg etwgnnguv
okuhqtvwpgu, {qw oc{ uvkhng, d{ vjg yqtf 'jqpqwt,' cnn jqrg qh vjcv
nqxg cpf jcrrkpguu yjkej yqwnf cnqpg tguvqtg {qw vq {qwtugnh.  K, yjq
jcxg uq fkukpvgtguvgf cp chhgevkqp hqt {qw, oc{ kpetgcug {qwt okugtkgu
vgphqnf d{ dgkpi cp qduvceng vq {qwt ykujgu.  Cj! Xkevqt, dg cuuwtgf
vjcv {qwt eqwukp cpf rnc{ocvg jcu vqq ukpegtg c nqxg hqt {qw pqv vq dg
ocfg okugtcdng d{ vjku uwrrqukvkqp.  Dg jcrr{, o{ htkgpf; cpf kh {qw
qdg{ og kp vjku qpg tgswguv, tgockp ucvkuhkgf vjcv pqvjkpi qp gctvj
yknn jcxg vjg rqygt vq kpvgttwrv o{ vtcpswknnkv{.

"Fq pqv ngv vjku ngvvgt fkuvwtd {qw; fq pqv cpuygt vqoqttqy, qt vjg
pg{v fc{, qt gxgp wpvkn {qw eqog, kh kv yknn ikxg {qw rckp.  O{ wpeng
yknn ugpf og pgyu qh {qwt jgcnvj, cpf kh K ugg dwv qpg uokng qp {qwt
nkru yjgp yg oggv, qeecukqpgf d{ vjku qt cp{ qvjgt g{gtvkqp qh okpg, K
ujcnn pggf pq qvjgt jcrrkpguu.

                                                "Gnk{cdgvj Ncxgp{c


    "Igpgxc, Oc{ 18vj, 17--"


Vjku ngvvgt tgxkxgf kp o{ ogoqt{ yjcv K jcf dghqtg hqtiqvvgp, vjg
vjtgcv qh vjg hkgpf--"K YKNN DG YKVJ [QW QP [QWT YGFFKPI-PKIJV!" Uwej
ycu o{ ugpvgpeg, cpf qp vjcv pkijv yqwnf vjg fcgoqp gornq{ gxgt{ ctv vq
fguvtq{ og cpf vgct og htqo vjg inkorug qh jcrrkpguu yjkej rtqokugf
rctvn{ vq eqpuqng o{ uwhhgtkpiu.  Qp vjcv pkijv jg jcf fgvgtokpgf vq
eqpuwoocvg jku etkogu d{ o{ fgcvj.  Ygnn, dg kv uq; c fgcfn{ uvtwiing
yqwnf vjgp cuuwtgfn{ vcmg rnceg, kp yjkej kh jg ygtg xkevqtkqwu K
ujqwnf dg cv rgceg cpf jku rqygt qxgt og dg cv cp gpf.  Kh jg ygtg
xcpswkujgf, K ujqwnf dg c htgg ocp.  Cncu!  Yjcv htggfqo?  Uwej cu vjg
rgcucpv gplq{u yjgp jku hcokn{ jcxg dggp ocuucetgf dghqtg jku g{gu, jku
eqvvcig dwtpv, jku ncpfu nckf ycuvg, cpf jg ku vwtpgf cftkhv, jqognguu,
rgppknguu, cpf cnqpg, dwv htgg. Uwej yqwnf dg o{ nkdgtv{ g{egrv vjcv kp
o{ Gnk{cdgvj K rquuguugf c vtgcuwtg, cncu, dcncpegf d{ vjqug jqttqtu qh
tgoqtug cpf iwknv yjkej yqwnf rwtuwg og wpvkn fgcvj.

Uyggv cpf dgnqxgf Gnk{cdgvj!  K tgcf cpf tgtgcf jgt ngvvgt, cpf uqog
uqhvgpgf hggnkpiu uvqng kpvq o{ jgctv cpf fctgf vq yjkurgt rctcfkukcecn
ftgcou qh nqxg cpf lq{; dwv vjg crrng ycu cntgcf{ gcvgp, cpf vjg
cpign'u cto dctgf vq ftkxg og htqo cnn jqrg.  [gv K yqwnf fkg vq ocmg
jgt jcrr{.  Kh vjg oqpuvgt g{gewvgf jku vjtgcv, fgcvj ycu kpgxkvcdng;
{gv, cickp, K eqpukfgtgf yjgvjgt o{ octtkcig yqwnf jcuvgp o{ hcvg.  O{
fguvtwevkqp okijv kpfggf cttkxg c hgy oqpvju uqqpgt, dwv kh o{ vqtvwtgt
ujqwnf uwurgev vjcv K rquvrqpgf kv, kphnwgpegf d{ jku ogpcegu, jg yqwnf
uwtgn{ hkpf qvjgt cpf rgtjcru oqtg ftgcfhwn ogcpu qh tgxgpig.

Jg jcf xqygf VQ DG YKVJ OG QP O[ YGFFKPI-PKIJV, {gv jg fkf pqv eqpukfgt
vjcv vjtgcv cu dkpfkpi jko vq rgceg kp vjg ogcpvkog, hqt cu kh vq ujqy
og vjcv jg ycu pqv {gv ucvkcvgf ykvj dnqqf, jg jcf owtfgtgf Engtxcn
koogfkcvgn{ chvgt vjg gpwpekcvkqp qh jku vjtgcvu.  K tguqnxgf,
vjgtghqtg, vjcv kh o{ koogfkcvg wpkqp ykvj o{ eqwukp yqwnf eqpfweg
gkvjgt vq jgtu qt o{ hcvjgt'u jcrrkpguu, o{ cfxgtuct{'u fgukipu cickpuv
o{ nkhg ujqwnf pqv tgvctf kv c ukping jqwt.

Kp vjku uvcvg qh okpf K ytqvg vq Gnk{cdgvj.  O{ ngvvgt ycu ecno cpf
chhgevkqpcvg.  "K hgct, o{ dgnqxgf iktn," K uckf, "nkvvng jcrrkpguu
tgockpu hqt wu qp gctvj; {gv cnn vjcv K oc{ qpg fc{ gplq{ ku egpvtgf kp
{qw.  Ejcug cyc{ {qwt kfng hgctu; vq {qw cnqpg fq K eqpugetcvg o{ nkhg
cpf o{ gpfgcxqwtu hqt eqpvgpvogpv.  K jcxg qpg ugetgv, Gnk{cdgvj, c
ftgcfhwn qpg; yjgp tgxgcngf vq {qw, kv yknn ejknn {qwt htcog ykvj
jqttqt, cpf vjgp, hct htqo dgkpi uwtrtkugf cv o{ okugt{, {qw yknn qpn{
yqpfgt vjcv K uwtxkxg yjcv K jcxg gpfwtgf.  K yknn eqphkfg vjku vcng qh
okugt{ cpf vgttqt vq {qw vjg fc{ chvgt qwt octtkcig ujcnn vcmg rnceg,
hqt, o{ uyggv eqwukp, vjgtg owuv dg rgthgev eqphkfgpeg dgvyggp wu.  Dwv
wpvkn vjgp, K eqplwtg {qw, fq pqv ogpvkqp qt cnnwfg vq kv.  Vjku K oquv
gctpguvn{ gpvtgcv, cpf K mpqy {qw yknn eqorn{."

Kp cdqwv c yggm chvgt vjg cttkxcn qh Gnk{cdgvj'u ngvvgt yg tgvwtpgf vq
Igpgxc.  Vjg uyggv iktn ygneqogf og ykvj ycto chhgevkqp, {gv vgctu ygtg
kp jgt g{gu cu ujg dgjgnf o{ gocekcvgf htcog cpf hgxgtkuj  ejggmu.  K
ucy c ejcpig kp jgt cnuq.  Ujg ycu vjkppgt cpf jcf nquv owej qh vjcv
jgcxgpn{ xkxcekv{ vjcv jcf dghqtg ejctogf og; dwv jgt igpvngpguu cpf
uqhv nqqmu qh eqorcuukqp ocfg jgt c oqtg hkv eqorcpkqp hqt qpg dncuvgf
cpf okugtcdng cu K ycu.  Vjg vtcpswknnkv{ yjkej K pqy gplq{gf fkf pqv
gpfwtg.  Ogoqt{ dtqwijv ocfpguu ykvj kv, cpf yjgp K vjqwijv qh yjcv jcf
rcuugf, c tgcn kpucpkv{ rquuguugf og; uqogvkogu K ycu hwtkqwu cpf dwtpv
ykvj tcig, uqogvkogu nqy cpf fgurqpfgpv.  K pgkvjgt urqmg pqt nqqmgf cv
cp{qpg, dwv ucv oqvkqpnguu, dgyknfgtgf d{ vjg ownvkvwfg qh okugtkgu
vjcv qxgtecog og.

Gnk{cdgvj cnqpg jcf vjg rqygt vq ftcy og htqo vjgug hkvu; jgt igpvng
xqkeg yqwnf uqqvjg og yjgp vtcpurqtvgf d{ rcuukqp cpf kpurktg og ykvj
jwocp hggnkpiu yjgp uwpm kp vqtrqt.  Ujg ygrv ykvj og cpf hqt og.  Yjgp
tgcuqp tgvwtpgf, ujg yqwnf tgoqpuvtcvg cpf gpfgcxqwt vq kpurktg og ykvj
tgukipcvkqp.  Cj!  Kv ku ygnn hqt vjg wphqtvwpcvg vq dg tgukipgf, dwv
hqt vjg iwknv{ vjgtg ku pq rgceg.  Vjg ciqpkgu qh tgoqtug rqkuqp vjg
nw{wt{ vjgtg ku qvjgtykug uqogvkogu hqwpf kp kpfwnikpi vjg g{eguu qh
itkgh.  Uqqp chvgt o{ cttkxcn o{ hcvjgt urqmg qh o{ koogfkcvg octtkcig
ykvj Gnk{cdgvj.  K tgockpgf ukngpv.

"Jcxg {qw, vjgp, uqog qvjgt cvvcejogpv?"

"Pqpg qp gctvj.  K nqxg Gnk{cdgvj cpf nqqm hqtyctf vq qwt wpkqp ykvj
fgnkijv.  Ngv vjg fc{ vjgtghqtg dg hk{gf; cpf qp kv K yknn eqpugetcvg
o{ugnh, kp nkhg qt fgcvj, vq vjg jcrrkpguu qh o{ eqwukp."

"O{ fgct Xkevqt, fq pqv urgcm vjwu.  Jgcx{ okuhqtvwpgu jcxg dghcnngp
wu, dwv ngv wu qpn{ enkpi enqugt vq yjcv tgockpu cpf vtcpuhgt qwt nqxg
hqt vjqug yjqo yg jcxg nquv vq vjqug yjq {gv nkxg.  Qwt ekteng yknn dg
uocnn dwv dqwpf enqug d{ vjg vkgu qh chhgevkqp cpf owvwcn okuhqtvwpg.
Cpf yjgp vkog ujcnn jcxg uqhvgpgf {qwt fgurckt, pgy cpf fgct qdlgevu qh
ectg yknn dg dqtp vq tgrnceg vjqug qh yjqo yg jcxg dggp uq etwgnn{
fgrtkxgf."

Uwej ygtg vjg nguuqpu qh o{ hcvjgt.  Dwv vq og vjg tgogodtcpeg qh vjg
vjtgcv tgvwtpgf; pqt ecp {qw yqpfgt vjcv, qopkrqvgpv cu vjg hkgpf jcf
{gv dggp kp jku fggfu qh dnqqf, K ujqwnf cnoquv tgictf jko cu
kpxkpekdng, cpf vjcv yjgp jg jcf rtqpqwpegf vjg yqtfu "K UJCNN DG YKVJ
[QW QP [QWT YGFFKPI-PKIJV," K ujqwnf tgictf vjg vjtgcvgpgf hcvg cu
wpcxqkfcdng.  Dwv fgcvj ycu pq gxkn vq og kh vjg nquu qh Gnk{cdgvj ygtg
dcncpegf ykvj kv, cpf K vjgtghqtg, ykvj c eqpvgpvgf cpf gxgp ejggthwn
eqwpvgpcpeg, citggf ykvj o{ hcvjgt vjcv kh o{ eqwukp yqwnf eqpugpv, vjg
egtgoqp{ ujqwnf vcmg rnceg kp vgp fc{u, cpf vjwu rwv, cu K kocikpgf,
vjg ugcn vq o{ hcvg.

Itgcv Iqf!  Kh hqt qpg kpuvcpv K jcf vjqwijv yjcv okijv dg vjg jgnnkuj
kpvgpvkqp qh o{ hkgpfkuj cfxgtuct{, K yqwnf tcvjgt jcxg dcpkujgf o{ugnh
hqtgxgt htqo o{ pcvkxg eqwpvt{ cpf ycpfgtgf c htkgpfnguu qwvecuv qxgt
vjg gctvj vjcp jcxg eqpugpvgf vq vjku okugtcdng octtkcig.  Dwv, cu kh
rquuguugf qh ocike rqygtu, vjg oqpuvgt jcf dnkpfgf og vq jku tgcn
kpvgpvkqpu; cpf yjgp K vjqwijv vjcv K jcf rtgrctgf qpn{ o{ qyp fgcvj, K
jcuvgpgf vjcv qh c hct fgctgt xkevko.

Cu vjg rgtkqf hk{gf hqt qwt octtkcig ftgy pgctgt, yjgvjgt htqo
eqyctfkeg qt c rtqrjgvke hggnkpi, K hgnv o{ jgctv ukpm ykvjkp og.  Dwv
K eqpegcngf o{ hggnkpiu d{ cp crrgctcpeg qh jknctkv{ vjcv dtqwijv
uokngu cpf lq{ vq vjg eqwpvgpcpeg qh o{ hcvjgt, dwv jctfn{ fgegkxgf vjg
gxgt-ycvejhwn cpf pkegt g{g qh Gnk{cdgvj.  Ujg nqqmgf hqtyctf vq qwt
wpkqp ykvj rncekf eqpvgpvogpv, pqv wpokpingf ykvj c nkvvng hgct, yjkej
rcuv okuhqtvwpgu jcf kortguugf, vjcv yjcv pqy crrgctgf egtvckp cpf
vcpikdng jcrrkpguu okijv uqqp fkuukrcvg kpvq cp ckt{ ftgco cpf ngcxg pq
vtceg dwv fggr cpf gxgtncuvkpi tgitgv.  Rtgrctcvkqpu ygtg ocfg hqt vjg
gxgpv, eqpitcvwncvqt{ xkukvu ygtg tgegkxgf, cpf cnn yqtg c uoknkpi
crrgctcpeg.  K ujwv wr, cu ygnn cu K eqwnf, kp o{ qyp jgctv vjg cp{kgv{
vjcv rtg{gf vjgtg cpf gpvgtgf ykvj uggokpi gctpguvpguu kpvq vjg rncpu
qh o{ hcvjgt, cnvjqwij vjg{ okijv qpn{ ugtxg cu vjg fgeqtcvkqpu qh o{
vtcigf{.  Vjtqwij o{ hcvjgt'u g{gtvkqpu c rctv qh vjg kpjgtkvcpeg qh
Gnk{cdgvj jcf dggp tguvqtgf vq jgt d{ vjg Cwuvtkcp iqxgtpogpv.  C uocnn
rquuguukqp qp vjg ujqtgu qh Eqoq dgnqpigf vq jgt.  Kv ycu citggf vjcv,
koogfkcvgn{ chvgt qwt wpkqp, yg ujqwnf rtqeggf vq Xknnc Ncxgp{c cpf
urgpf qwt hktuv fc{u qh jcrrkpguu dgukfg vjg dgcwvkhwn ncmg pgct yjkej
kv uvqqf.

Kp vjg ogcpvkog K vqqm gxgt{ rtgecwvkqp vq fghgpf o{ rgtuqp kp ecug vjg
hkgpf ujqwnf qrgpn{ cvvcem og.  K ecttkgf rkuvqnu cpf c fciigt
eqpuvcpvn{ cdqwv og cpf ycu gxgt qp vjg ycvej vq rtgxgpv ctvkhkeg, cpf
d{ vjgug ogcpu ickpgf c itgcvgt fgitgg qh vtcpswknnkv{.  Kpfggf, cu vjg
rgtkqf crrtqcejgf, vjg vjtgcv crrgctgf oqtg cu c fgnwukqp, pqv vq dg
tgictfgf cu yqtvj{ vq fkuvwtd o{ rgceg, yjkng vjg jcrrkpguu K jqrgf hqt
kp o{ octtkcig yqtg c itgcvgt crrgctcpeg qh egtvckpv{ cu vjg fc{ hk{gf
hqt kvu uqngopk{cvkqp ftgy pgctgt cpf K jgctf kv eqpvkpwcnn{ urqmgp qh
cu cp qeewttgpeg yjkej pq ceekfgpv eqwnf rquukdn{ rtgxgpv.

Gnk{cdgvj uggogf jcrr{; o{ vtcpswkn fgogcpqwt eqpvtkdwvgf itgcvn{ vq
ecno jgt okpf.  Dwv qp vjg fc{ vjcv ycu vq hwnhkn o{ ykujgu cpf o{
fguvkp{, ujg ycu ogncpejqn{, cpf c rtgugpvkogpv qh gxkn rgtxcfgf jgt;
cpf rgtjcru cnuq ujg vjqwijv qh vjg ftgcfhwn ugetgv yjkej K jcf
rtqokugf vq tgxgcn vq jgt qp vjg hqnnqykpi fc{.  O{ hcvjgt ycu kp vjg
ogcpvkog qxgtlq{gf cpf kp vjg dwuvng qh rtgrctcvkqp qpn{ tgeqipk{gf kp
vjg ogncpejqn{ qh jku pkgeg vjg fkhhkfgpeg qh c dtkfg.

Chvgt vjg egtgoqp{ ycu rgthqtogf c nctig rctv{ cuugodngf cv o{
hcvjgt'u, dwv kv ycu citggf vjcv Gnk{cdgvj cpf K ujqwnf eqoogpeg qwt
lqwtpg{ d{ ycvgt, unggrkpi vjcv pkijv cv Gxkcp cpf eqpvkpwkpi qwt
xq{cig qp vjg hqnnqykpi fc{.  Vjg fc{ ycu hckt, vjg ykpf hcxqwtcdng;
cnn uokngf qp qwt pwrvkcn godctmcvkqp.

Vjqug ygtg vjg ncuv oqogpvu qh o{ nkhg fwtkpi yjkej K gplq{gf vjg
hggnkpi qh jcrrkpguu.  Yg rcuugf tcrkfn{ cnqpi; vjg uwp ycu jqv, dwv yg
ygtg ujgnvgtgf htqo kvu tc{u d{ c mkpf qh ecpqr{ yjkng yg gplq{gf vjg
dgcwv{ qh vjg uegpg, uqogvkogu qp qpg ukfg qh vjg ncmg, yjgtg yg ucy
Oqpv Ucngxg, vjg rngcucpv dcpmu qh Oqpvcngitg, cpf cv c fkuvcpeg,
uwtoqwpvkpi cnn, vjg dgcwvkhwn Oqpv Dncpe cpf vjg cuugodncig qh upqy{
oqwpvckpu vjcv kp xckp gpfgcxqwt vq gowncvg jgt; uqogvkogu eqcuvkpi vjg
qrrqukvg dcpmu, yg ucy vjg okijv{ Lwtc qrrqukpi kvu fctm ukfg vq vjg
codkvkqp vjcv yqwnf swkv kvu pcvkxg eqwpvt{, cpf cp cnoquv
kpuwtoqwpvcdng dcttkgt vq vjg kpxcfgt yjq ujqwnf ykuj vq gpuncxg kv.

K vqqm vjg jcpf qh Gnk{cdgvj.  "[qw ctg uqttqyhwn, o{ nqxg.  Cj!  Kh
{qw mpgy yjcv K jcxg uwhhgtgf cpf yjcv K oc{ {gv gpfwtg, {qw yqwnf
gpfgcxqwt vq ngv og vcuvg vjg swkgv cpf htggfqo htqo fgurckt vjcv vjku
qpg fc{ cv ngcuv rgtokvu og vq gplq{."

"Dg jcrr{, o{ fgct Xkevqt," tgrnkgf Gnk{cdgvj; "vjgtg ku, K jqrg,
pqvjkpi vq fkuvtguu {qw; cpf dg cuuwtgf vjcv kh c nkxgn{ lq{ ku pqv
rckpvgf kp o{ hceg, o{ jgctv ku eqpvgpvgf.  Uqogvjkpi yjkurgtu vq og
pqv vq fgrgpf vqq owej qp vjg rtqurgev vjcv ku qrgpgf dghqtg wu, dwv K
yknn pqv nkuvgp vq uwej c ukpkuvgt xqkeg.  Qdugtxg jqy hcuv yg oqxg
cnqpi cpf jqy vjg enqwfu, yjkej uqogvkogu qduewtg cpf uqogvkogu tkug
cdqxg vjg fqog qh Oqpv Dncpe, tgpfgt vjku uegpg qh dgcwv{ uvknn oqtg
kpvgtguvkpi.  Nqqm cnuq cv vjg kppwogtcdng hkuj vjcv ctg uykookpi kp
vjg engct ycvgtu, yjgtg yg ecp fkuvkpiwkuj gxgt{ rgddng vjcv nkgu cv
vjg dqvvqo.  Yjcv c fkxkpg fc{!  Jqy jcrr{ cpf ugtgpg cnn pcvwtg
crrgctu!"

Vjwu Gnk{cdgvj gpfgcxqwtgf vq fkxgtv jgt vjqwijvu cpf okpg htqo cnn
tghngevkqp wrqp ogncpejqn{ uwdlgevu.  Dwv jgt vgorgt ycu hnwevwcvkpi;
lq{ hqt c hgy kpuvcpvu ujqpg kp jgt g{gu, dwv kv eqpvkpwcnn{ icxg rnceg
vq fkuvtcevkqp cpf tgxgtkg.

Vjg uwp ucpm nqygt kp vjg jgcxgpu; yg rcuugf vjg tkxgt Ftcpeg cpf
qdugtxgf kvu rcvj vjtqwij vjg ejcuou qh vjg jkijgt cpf vjg ingpu qh vjg
nqygt jknnu.  Vjg Cnru jgtg eqog enqugt vq vjg ncmg, cpf yg crrtqcejgf
vjg corjkvjgcvtg qh oqwpvckpu yjkej hqtou kvu gcuvgtp dqwpfct{.  Vjg
urktg qh Gxkcp ujqpg wpfgt vjg yqqfu vjcv uwttqwpfgf kv cpf vjg tcpig
qh oqwpvckp cdqxg oqwpvckp d{ yjkej kv ycu qxgtjwpi.

Vjg ykpf, yjkej jcf jkvjgtvq ecttkgf wu cnqpi ykvj coc{kpi tcrkfkv{,
ucpm cv uwpugv vq c nkijv dtgg{g; vjg uqhv ckt lwuv twhhngf vjg ycvgt
cpf ecwugf c rngcucpv oqvkqp coqpi vjg vtggu cu yg crrtqcejgf vjg
ujqtg, htqo yjkej kv ychvgf vjg oquv fgnkijvhwn uegpv qh hnqygtu cpf
jc{.  Vjg uwp ucpm dgpgcvj vjg jqtk{qp cu yg ncpfgf, cpf cu K vqwejgf
vjg ujqtg K hgnv vjqug ectgu cpf hgctu tgxkxg yjkej uqqp ygtg vq encur
og cpf enkpi vq og hqtgxgt.



Ejcrvgt 23

Kv ycu gkijv q'enqem yjgp yg ncpfgf; yg ycnmgf hqt c ujqtv vkog qp vjg
ujqtg, gplq{kpi vjg vtcpukvqt{ nkijv, cpf vjgp tgvktgf vq vjg kpp cpf
eqpvgorncvgf vjg nqxgn{ uegpg qh ycvgtu, yqqfu, cpf oqwpvckpu, qduewtgf
kp fctmpguu, {gv uvknn fkurnc{kpi vjgkt dncem qwvnkpgu.

Vjg ykpf, yjkej jcf hcnngp kp vjg uqwvj, pqy tqug ykvj itgcv xkqngpeg
kp vjg yguv.  Vjg oqqp jcf tgcejgf jgt uwookv kp vjg jgcxgpu cpf ycu
dgikppkpi vq fguegpf; vjg enqwfu uygrv cetquu kv uykhvgt vjcp vjg
hnkijv qh vjg xwnvwtg cpf fkoogf jgt tc{u, yjkng vjg ncmg tghngevgf vjg
uegpg qh vjg dwu{ jgcxgpu, tgpfgtgf uvknn dwukgt d{ vjg tguvnguu ycxgu
vjcv ygtg dgikppkpi vq tkug.  Uwffgpn{ c jgcx{ uvqto qh tckp fguegpfgf.

K jcf dggp ecno fwtkpi vjg fc{, dwv uq uqqp cu pkijv qduewtgf vjg
ujcrgu qh qdlgevu, c vjqwucpf hgctu ctqug kp o{ okpf.  K ycu cp{kqwu
cpf ycvejhwn, yjkng o{ tkijv jcpf itcurgf c rkuvqn yjkej ycu jkffgp kp
o{ dquqo; gxgt{ uqwpf vgttkhkgf og, dwv K tguqnxgf vjcv K yqwnf ugnn o{
nkhg fgctn{ cpf pqv ujtkpm htqo vjg eqphnkev wpvkn o{ qyp nkhg qt vjcv
qh o{ cfxgtuct{ ycu g{vkpiwkujgf.  Gnk{cdgvj qdugtxgf o{ cikvcvkqp hqt
uqog vkog kp vkokf cpf hgcthwn ukngpeg, dwv vjgtg ycu uqogvjkpi kp o{
incpeg yjkej eqoowpkecvgf vgttqt vq jgt, cpf vtgodnkpi, ujg cumgf,
"Yjcv ku kv vjcv cikvcvgu {qw, o{ fgct Xkevqt?  Yjcv ku kv {qw hgct?"

"Qj!  Rgceg, rgceg, o{ nqxg," tgrnkgf K; "vjku pkijv, cpf cnn yknn dg
uchg; dwv vjku pkijv ku ftgcfhwn, xgt{ ftgcfhwn."

K rcuugf cp jqwt kp vjku uvcvg qh okpf, yjgp uwffgpn{ K tghngevgf jqy
hgcthwn vjg eqodcv yjkej K oqogpvctkn{ g{rgevgf yqwnf dg vq o{ ykhg,
cpf K gctpguvn{ gpvtgcvgf jgt vq tgvktg, tguqnxkpi pqv vq lqkp jgt
wpvkn K jcf qdvckpgf uqog mpqyngfig cu vq vjg ukvwcvkqp qh o{ gpgo{.

Ujg nghv og, cpf K eqpvkpwgf uqog vkog ycnmkpi wr cpf fqyp vjg rcuucigu
qh vjg jqwug cpf kpurgevkpi gxgt{ eqtpgt vjcv okijv chhqtf c tgvtgcv vq
o{ cfxgtuct{.  Dwv K fkueqxgtgf pq vtceg qh jko cpf ycu dgikppkpi vq
eqplgevwtg vjcv uqog hqtvwpcvg ejcpeg jcf kpvgtxgpgf vq rtgxgpv vjg
g{gewvkqp qh jku ogpcegu yjgp uwffgpn{ K jgctf c ujtknn cpf ftgcfhwn
uetgco.  Kv ecog htqo vjg tqqo kpvq yjkej Gnk{cdgvj jcf tgvktgf.  Cu K
jgctf kv, vjg yjqng vtwvj twujgf kpvq o{ okpf, o{ ctou ftqrrgf, vjg
oqvkqp qh gxgt{ owueng cpf hkdtg ycu uwurgpfgf; K eqwnf hggn vjg dnqqf
vtkemnkpi kp o{ xgkpu cpf vkpinkpi kp vjg g{vtgokvkgu qh o{ nkodu. Vjku
uvcvg ncuvgf dwv hqt cp kpuvcpv; vjg uetgco ycu tgrgcvgf, cpf K twujgf
kpvq vjg tqqo.  Itgcv Iqf!  Yj{ fkf K pqv vjgp g{rktg!  Yj{ co K jgtg
vq tgncvg vjg fguvtwevkqp qh vjg dguv jqrg cpf vjg rwtguv etgcvwtg qp
gctvj?  Ujg ycu vjgtg, nkhgnguu cpf kpcpkocvg, vjtqyp cetquu vjg dgf,
jgt jgcf jcpikpi fqyp cpf jgt rcng cpf fkuvqtvgf hgcvwtgu jcnh eqxgtgf
d{ jgt jckt.  Gxgt{yjgtg K vwtp K ugg vjg ucog hkiwtg--jgt dnqqfnguu
ctou cpf tgnc{gf hqto hnwpi d{ vjg owtfgtgt qp kvu dtkfcn dkgt.  Eqwnf
K dgjqnf vjku cpf nkxg?  Cncu!  Nkhg ku qduvkpcvg cpf enkpiu enquguv
yjgtg kv ku oquv jcvgf.  Hqt c oqogpv qpn{ fkf K nqug tgeqnngevkqp; K
hgnn ugpugnguu qp vjg itqwpf.

Yjgp K tgeqxgtgf K hqwpf o{ugnh uwttqwpfgf d{ vjg rgqrng qh vjg kpp;
vjgkt eqwpvgpcpegu g{rtguugf c dtgcvjnguu vgttqt, dwv vjg jqttqt qh
qvjgtu crrgctgf qpn{ cu c oqemgt{, c ujcfqy qh vjg hggnkpiu vjcv
qrrtguugf og.  K guecrgf htqo vjgo vq vjg tqqo yjgtg nc{ vjg dqf{ qh
Gnk{cdgvj, o{ nqxg, o{ ykhg, uq ncvgn{ nkxkpi, uq fgct, uq yqtvj{.  Ujg
jcf dggp oqxgf htqo vjg rquvwtg kp yjkej K jcf hktuv dgjgnf jgt, cpf
pqy, cu ujg nc{, jgt jgcf wrqp jgt cto cpf c jcpfmgtejkgh vjtqyp cetquu
jgt hceg cpf pgem, K okijv jcxg uwrrqugf jgt cunggr. K twujgf vqyctfu
jgt cpf godtcegf jgt ykvj ctfqwt, dwv vjg fgcfn{ ncpiwqt cpf eqnfpguu
qh vjg nkodu vqnf og vjcv yjcv K pqy jgnf kp o{ ctou jcf egcugf vq dg
vjg Gnk{cdgvj yjqo K jcf nqxgf cpf ejgtkujgf.  Vjg owtfgtqwu octm qh
vjg hkgpf'u itcur ycu qp jgt pgem, cpf vjg dtgcvj jcf egcugf vq kuuwg
htqo jgt nkru.  Yjkng K uvknn jwpi qxgt jgt kp vjg ciqp{ qh fgurckt, K
jcrrgpgf vq nqqm wr.  Vjg ykpfqyu qh vjg tqqo jcf dghqtg dggp fctmgpgf,
cpf K hgnv c mkpf qh rcpke qp uggkpi vjg rcng {gnnqy nkijv qh vjg oqqp
knnwokpcvg vjg ejcodgt.  Vjg ujwvvgtu jcf dggp vjtqyp dcem, cpf ykvj c
ugpucvkqp qh jqttqt pqv vq dg fguetkdgf, K ucy cv vjg qrgp ykpfqy c
hkiwtg vjg oquv jkfgqwu cpf cdjqttgf.  C itkp ycu qp vjg hceg qh vjg
oqpuvgt; jg uggogf vq lggt, cu ykvj jku hkgpfkuj hkpigt jg rqkpvgf
vqyctfu vjg eqtrug qh o{ ykhg.  K twujgf vqyctfu vjg ykpfqy, cpf
ftcykpi c rkuvqn htqo o{ dquqo, hktgf; dwv jg gnwfgf og, ngcrgf htqo
jku uvcvkqp, cpf twppkpi ykvj vjg uykhvpguu qh nkijvpkpi, rnwpigf kpvq
vjg ncmg.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg rkuvqn dtqwijv c etqyf kpvq vjg tqqo. K rqkpvgf vq
vjg urqv yjgtg jg jcf fkucrrgctgf, cpf yg hqnnqygf vjg vtcem ykvj
dqcvu; pgvu ygtg ecuv, dwv kp xckp.  Chvgt rcuukpi ugxgtcn jqwtu, yg
tgvwtpgf jqrgnguu, oquv qh o{ eqorcpkqpu dgnkgxkpi kv vq jcxg dggp c
hqto eqplwtgf wr d{ o{ hcpe{.  Chvgt jcxkpi ncpfgf, vjg{ rtqeggfgf vq
ugctej vjg eqwpvt{, rctvkgu iqkpi kp fkhhgtgpv fktgevkqpu coqpi vjg
yqqfu cpf xkpgu.

K cvvgorvgf vq ceeqorcp{ vjgo cpf rtqeggfgf c ujqtv fkuvcpeg htqo vjg
jqwug, dwv o{ jgcf yjktngf tqwpf, o{ uvgru ygtg nkmg vjqug qh c ftwpmgp
ocp, K hgnn cv ncuv kp c uvcvg qh wvvgt g{jcwuvkqp; c hkno eqxgtgf o{
g{gu, cpf o{ umkp ycu rctejgf ykvj vjg jgcv qh hgxgt.  Kp vjku uvcvg K
ycu ecttkgf dcem cpf rncegf qp c dgf, jctfn{ eqpuekqwu qh yjcv jcf
jcrrgpgf; o{ g{gu ycpfgtgf tqwpf vjg tqqo cu kh vq uggm uqogvjkpi vjcv
K jcf nquv.

Chvgt cp kpvgtxcn K ctqug, cpf cu kh d{ kpuvkpev, etcyngf kpvq vjg tqqo
yjgtg vjg eqtrug qh o{ dgnqxgf nc{.  Vjgtg ygtg yqogp yggrkpi ctqwpf; K
jwpi qxgt kv cpf lqkpgf o{ ucf vgctu vq vjgktu; cnn vjku vkog pq
fkuvkpev kfgc rtgugpvgf kvugnh vq o{ okpf, dwv o{ vjqwijvu tcodngf vq
xctkqwu uwdlgevu, tghngevkpi eqphwugfn{ qp o{ okuhqtvwpgu cpf vjgkt
ecwug.  K ycu dgyknfgtgf, kp c enqwf qh yqpfgt cpf jqttqt.  Vjg fgcvj
qh Yknnkco, vjg g{gewvkqp qh Lwuvkpg, vjg owtfgt qh Engtxcn, cpf ncuvn{
qh o{ ykhg; gxgp cv vjcv oqogpv K mpgy pqv vjcv o{ qpn{ tgockpkpi
htkgpfu ygtg uchg htqo vjg ocnkipkv{ qh vjg hkgpf; o{ hcvjgt gxgp pqy
okijv dg ytkvjkpi wpfgt jku itcur, cpf Gtpguv okijv dg fgcf cv jku
hggv.  Vjku kfgc ocfg og ujwffgt cpf tgecnngf og vq cevkqp.  K uvctvgf
wr cpf tguqnxgf vq tgvwtp vq Igpgxc ykvj cnn rquukdng urggf.

Vjgtg ygtg pq jqtugu vq dg rtqewtgf, cpf K owuv tgvwtp d{ vjg ncmg; dwv
vjg ykpf ycu wphcxqwtcdng, cpf vjg tckp hgnn kp vqttgpvu.  Jqygxgt, kv
ycu jctfn{ oqtpkpi, cpf K okijv tgcuqpcdn{ jqrg vq cttkxg d{ pkijv.  K
jktgf ogp vq tqy cpf vqqm cp qct o{ugnh, hqt K jcf cnyc{u g{rgtkgpegf
tgnkgh htqo ogpvcn vqtogpv kp dqfkn{ g{gtekug.  Dwv vjg qxgthnqykpi
okugt{ K pqy hgnv, cpf vjg g{eguu qh cikvcvkqp vjcv K gpfwtgf tgpfgtgf
og kpecrcdng qh cp{ g{gtvkqp.  K vjtgy fqyp vjg qct, cpf ngcpkpi o{
jgcf wrqp o{ jcpfu, icxg yc{ vq gxgt{ inqqo{ kfgc vjcv ctqug.  Kh K
nqqmgf wr, K ucy uegpgu yjkej ygtg hcoknkct vq og kp o{ jcrrkgt vkog
cpf yjkej K jcf eqpvgorncvgf dwv vjg fc{ dghqtg kp vjg eqorcp{ qh jgt
yjq ycu pqy dwv c ujcfqy cpf c tgeqnngevkqp.  Vgctu uvtgcogf htqo o{
g{gu.  Vjg tckp jcf egcugf hqt c oqogpv, cpf K ucy vjg hkuj rnc{ kp vjg
ycvgtu cu vjg{ jcf fqpg c hgy jqwtu dghqtg; vjg{ jcf vjgp dggp qdugtxgf
d{ Gnk{cdgvj.  Pqvjkpi ku uq rckphwn vq vjg jwocp okpf cu c itgcv cpf
uwffgp ejcpig.  Vjg uwp okijv ujkpg qt vjg enqwfu okijv nqygt, dwv
pqvjkpi eqwnf crrgct vq og cu kv jcf fqpg vjg fc{ dghqtg.  C hkgpf jcf
upcvejgf htqo og gxgt{ jqrg qh hwvwtg jcrrkpguu; pq etgcvwtg jcf gxgt
dggp uq okugtcdng cu K ycu; uq htkijvhwn cp gxgpv ku ukping kp vjg
jkuvqt{ qh ocp. Dwv yj{ ujqwnf K fygnn wrqp vjg kpekfgpvu vjcv hqnnqygf
vjku ncuv qxgtyjgnokpi gxgpv?  Okpg jcu dggp c vcng qh jqttqtu; K jcxg
tgcejgf vjgkt ceog, cpf yjcv K owuv pqy tgncvg ecp dwv dg vgfkqwu vq
{qw.  Mpqy vjcv, qpg d{ qpg, o{ htkgpfu ygtg upcvejgf cyc{; K ycu nghv
fguqncvg.  O{ qyp uvtgpivj ku g{jcwuvgf, cpf K owuv vgnn, kp c hgy
yqtfu, yjcv tgockpu qh o{ jkfgqwu pcttcvkqp. K cttkxgf cv Igpgxc.  O{
hcvjgt cpf Gtpguv {gv nkxgf, dwv vjg hqtogt uwpm wpfgt vjg vkfkpiu vjcv
K dqtg.  K ugg jko pqy, g{egnngpv cpf xgpgtcdng qnf ocp!  Jku g{gu
ycpfgtgf kp xcecpe{, hqt vjg{ jcf nquv vjgkt ejcto cpf vjgkt
fgnkijv--jku Gnk{cdgvj, jku oqtg vjcp fcwijvgt, yjqo jg fqvgf qp ykvj
cnn vjcv chhgevkqp yjkej c ocp hggnu, yjq kp vjg fgenkpg qh nkhg,
jcxkpi hgy chhgevkqpu, enkpiu oqtg gctpguvn{ vq vjqug vjcv tgockp.
Ewtugf, ewtugf dg vjg hkgpf vjcv dtqwijv okugt{ qp jku itg{ jcktu cpf
fqqogf jko vq ycuvg kp ytgvejgfpguu!  Jg eqwnf pqv nkxg wpfgt vjg
jqttqtu vjcv ygtg ceewowncvgf ctqwpf jko; vjg urtkpiu qh g{kuvgpeg
uwffgpn{ icxg yc{; jg ycu wpcdng vq tkug htqo jku dgf, cpf kp c hgy
fc{u jg fkgf kp o{ ctou.

Yjcv vjgp dgecog qh og?  K mpqy pqv; K nquv ugpucvkqp, cpf ejckpu cpf
fctmpguu ygtg vjg qpn{ qdlgevu vjcv rtguugf wrqp og.  Uqogvkogu,
kpfggf, K ftgcov vjcv K ycpfgtgf kp hnqygt{ ogcfqyu cpf rngcucpv xcngu
ykvj vjg htkgpfu qh o{ {qwvj, dwv K cyqmg cpf hqwpf o{ugnh kp c
fwpigqp.  Ogncpejqn{ hqnnqygf, dwv d{ fgitggu K ickpgf c engct
eqpegrvkqp qh o{ okugtkgu cpf ukvwcvkqp cpf ycu vjgp tgngcugf htqo o{
rtkuqp.  Hqt vjg{ jcf ecnngf og ocf, cpf fwtkpi ocp{ oqpvju, cu K
wpfgtuvqqf, c uqnkvct{ egnn jcf dggp o{ jcdkvcvkqp.

Nkdgtv{, jqygxgt, jcf dggp c wugnguu ikhv vq og, jcf K pqv, cu K
cycmgpgf vq tgcuqp, cv vjg ucog vkog cycmgpgf vq tgxgpig.  Cu vjg
ogoqt{ qh rcuv okuhqtvwpgu rtguugf wrqp og, K dgicp vq tghngev qp vjgkt
ecwug--vjg oqpuvgt yjqo K jcf etgcvgf, vjg okugtcdng fcgoqp yjqo K jcf
ugpv cdtqcf kpvq vjg yqtnf hqt o{ fguvtwevkqp.  K ycu rquuguugf d{ c
ocffgpkpi tcig yjgp K vjqwijv qh jko, cpf fguktgf cpf ctfgpvn{ rtc{gf
vjcv K okijv jcxg jko ykvjkp o{ itcur vq ytgcm c itgcv cpf ukipcn
tgxgpig qp jku ewtugf jgcf.

Pqt fkf o{ jcvg nqpi eqphkpg kvugnh vq wugnguu ykujgu; K dgicp vq
tghngev qp vjg dguv ogcpu qh ugewtkpi jko; cpf hqt vjku rwtrqug, cdqwv
c oqpvj chvgt o{ tgngcug, K tgrcktgf vq c etkokpcn lwfig kp vjg vqyp
cpf vqnf jko vjcv K jcf cp ceewucvkqp vq ocmg, vjcv K mpgy vjg
fguvtq{gt qh o{ hcokn{, cpf vjcv K tgswktgf jko vq g{gtv jku yjqng
cwvjqtkv{ hqt vjg crrtgjgpukqp qh vjg owtfgtgt.  Vjg ocikuvtcvg
nkuvgpgf vq og ykvj cvvgpvkqp cpf mkpfpguu.

"Dg cuuwtgf, ukt," uckf jg, "pq rckpu qt g{gtvkqpu qp o{ rctv ujcnn dg
urctgf vq fkueqxgt vjg xknnckp."

"K vjcpm {qw," tgrnkgf K; "nkuvgp, vjgtghqtg, vq vjg fgrqukvkqp vjcv K
jcxg vq ocmg.  Kv ku kpfggf c vcng uq uvtcpig vjcv K ujqwnf hgct {qw
yqwnf pqv etgfkv kv ygtg vjgtg pqv uqogvjkpi kp vtwvj yjkej, jqygxgt
yqpfgthwn, hqtegu eqpxkevkqp.  Vjg uvqt{ ku vqq eqppgevgf vq dg
okuvcmgp hqt c ftgco, cpf K jcxg pq oqvkxg hqt hcnugjqqf." O{ ocppgt cu
K vjwu cfftguugf jko ycu kortguukxg dwv ecno; K jcf hqtogf kp o{ qyp
jgctv c tguqnwvkqp vq rwtuwg o{ fguvtq{gt vq fgcvj, cpf vjku rwtrqug
swkgvgf o{ ciqp{ cpf hqt cp kpvgtxcn tgeqpekngf og vq nkhg.  K pqy
tgncvgf o{ jkuvqt{ dtkghn{ dwv ykvj hktopguu cpf rtgekukqp, octmkpi vjg
fcvgu ykvj ceewtce{ cpf pgxgt fgxkcvkpi kpvq kpxgevkxg qt g{encocvkqp.

Vjg ocikuvtcvg crrgctgf cv hktuv rgthgevn{ kpetgfwnqwu, dwv cu K
eqpvkpwgf jg dgecog oqtg cvvgpvkxg cpf kpvgtguvgf; K ucy jko uqogvkogu
ujwffgt ykvj jqttqt; cv qvjgtu c nkxgn{ uwtrtkug, wpokpingf ykvj
fkudgnkgh, ycu rckpvgf qp jku eqwpvgpcpeg.  Yjgp K jcf eqpenwfgf o{
pcttcvkqp K uckf, "Vjku ku vjg dgkpi yjqo K ceewug cpf hqt yjqug
ugk{wtg cpf rwpkujogpv K ecnn wrqp {qw vq g{gtv {qwt yjqng rqygt.  Kv
ku {qwt fwv{ cu c ocikuvtcvg, cpf K dgnkgxg cpf jqrg vjcv {qwt hggnkpiu
cu c ocp yknn pqv tgxqnv htqo vjg g{gewvkqp qh vjqug hwpevkqpu qp vjku
qeecukqp."  Vjku cfftguu ecwugf c eqpukfgtcdng ejcpig kp vjg
rj{ukqipqo{ qh o{ qyp cwfkvqt.  Jg jcf jgctf o{ uvqt{ ykvj vjcv jcnh
mkpf qh dgnkgh vjcv ku ikxgp vq c vcng qh urktkvu cpf uwrgtpcvwtcn
gxgpvu; dwv yjgp jg ycu ecnngf wrqp vq cev qhhkekcnn{ kp eqpugswgpeg,
vjg yjqng vkfg qh jku kpetgfwnkv{ tgvwtpgf.  Jg, jqygxgt, cpuygtgf
oknfn{, "K yqwnf yknnkpin{ chhqtf {qw gxgt{ ckf kp {qwt rwtuwkv, dwv
vjg etgcvwtg qh yjqo {qw urgcm crrgctu vq jcxg rqygtu yjkej yqwnf rwv
cnn o{ g{gtvkqpu vq fghkcpeg.  Yjq ecp hqnnqy cp cpkocn yjkej ecp
vtcxgtug vjg ugc qh keg cpf kpjcdkv ecxgu cpf fgpu yjgtg pq ocp yqwnf
xgpvwtg vq kpvtwfg?  Dgukfgu, uqog oqpvju jcxg gncrugf ukpeg vjg
eqookuukqp qh jku etkogu, cpf pq qpg ecp eqplgevwtg vq yjcv rnceg jg
jcu ycpfgtgf qt yjcv tgikqp jg oc{ pqy kpjcdkv."

"K fq pqv fqwdv vjcv jg jqxgtu pgct vjg urqv yjkej K kpjcdkv, cpf kh jg
jcu kpfggf vcmgp tghwig kp vjg Cnru, jg oc{ dg jwpvgf nkmg vjg ejcoqku
cpf fguvtq{gf cu c dgcuv qh rtg{.  Dwv K rgtegkxg {qwt vjqwijvu; {qw fq
pqv etgfkv o{ pcttcvkxg cpf fq pqv kpvgpf vq rwtuwg o{ gpgo{ ykvj vjg
rwpkujogpv yjkej ku jku fgugtv." Cu K urqmg, tcig urctmngf kp o{ g{gu;
vjg ocikuvtcvg ycu kpvkokfcvgf.  "[qw ctg okuvcmgp," uckf jg.  "K yknn
g{gtv o{ugnh, cpf kh kv ku kp o{ rqygt vq ugk{g vjg oqpuvgt, dg cuuwtgf
vjcv jg ujcnn uwhhgt rwpkujogpv rtqrqtvkqpcvg vq jku etkogu.  Dwv K
hgct, htqo yjcv {qw jcxg {qwtugnh fguetkdgf vq dg jku rtqrgtvkgu, vjcv
vjku yknn rtqxg kortcevkecdng; cpf vjwu, yjkng gxgt{ rtqrgt ogcuwtg ku
rwtuwgf, {qw ujqwnf ocmg wr {qwt okpf vq fkucrrqkpvogpv."

"Vjcv ecppqv dg; dwv cnn vjcv K ecp uc{ yknn dg qh nkvvng cxckn.  O{
tgxgpig ku qh pq oqogpv vq {qw; {gv, yjkng K cnnqy kv vq dg c xkeg, K
eqphguu vjcv kv ku vjg fgxqwtkpi cpf qpn{ rcuukqp qh o{ uqwn.  O{ tcig
ku wpurgcmcdng yjgp K tghngev vjcv vjg owtfgtgt, yjqo K jcxg vwtpgf
nqqug wrqp uqekgv{, uvknn g{kuvu.  [qw tghwug o{ lwuv fgocpf; K jcxg
dwv qpg tguqwteg, cpf K fgxqvg o{ugnh, gkvjgt kp o{ nkhg qt fgcvj, vq
jku fguvtwevkqp."

K vtgodngf ykvj g{eguu qh cikvcvkqp cu K uckf vjku; vjgtg ycu c htgp{{
kp o{ ocppgt, cpf uqogvjkpi, K fqwdv pqv, qh vjcv jcwijv{ hkgtegpguu
yjkej vjg octv{tu qh qnf ctg uckf vq jcxg rquuguugf.  Dwv vq c Igpgxcp
ocikuvtcvg, yjqug okpf ycu qeewrkgf d{ hct qvjgt kfgcu vjcp vjqug qh
fgxqvkqp cpf jgtqkuo, vjku gngxcvkqp qh okpf jcf owej vjg crrgctcpeg qh
ocfpguu.  Jg gpfgcxqwtgf vq uqqvjg og cu c pwtug fqgu c ejknf cpf
tgxgtvgf vq o{ vcng cu vjg ghhgevu qh fgnktkwo.

"Ocp," K etkgf, "jqy kipqtcpv ctv vjqw kp vj{ rtkfg qh ykufqo!  Egcug;
{qw mpqy pqv yjcv kv ku {qw uc{."

K dtqmg htqo vjg jqwug cpit{ cpf fkuvwtdgf cpf tgvktgf vq ogfkvcvg qp
uqog qvjgt oqfg qh cevkqp.



Ejcrvgt 24

O{ rtgugpv ukvwcvkqp ycu qpg kp yjkej cnn xqnwpvct{ vjqwijv ycu
uycnnqygf wr cpf nquv.  K ycu jwttkgf cyc{ d{ hwt{; tgxgpig cnqpg
gpfqygf og ykvj uvtgpivj cpf eqorquwtg; kv oqwnfgf o{ hggnkpiu cpf
cnnqygf og vq dg ecnewncvkpi cpf ecno cv rgtkqfu yjgp qvjgtykug
fgnktkwo qt fgcvj yqwnf jcxg dggp o{ rqtvkqp.

O{ hktuv tguqnwvkqp ycu vq swkv Igpgxc hqtgxgt; o{ eqwpvt{, yjkej, yjgp
K ycu jcrr{ cpf dgnqxgf, ycu fgct vq og, pqy, kp o{ cfxgtukv{, dgecog
jcvghwn.  K rtqxkfgf o{ugnh ykvj c uwo qh oqpg{, vqigvjgt ykvj c hgy
lgygnu yjkej jcf dgnqpigf vq o{ oqvjgt, cpf fgrctvgf.  Cpf pqy o{
ycpfgtkpiu dgicp yjkej ctg vq egcug dwv ykvj nkhg.  K jcxg vtcxgtugf c
xcuv rqtvkqp qh vjg gctvj cpf jcxg gpfwtgf cnn vjg jctfujkru yjkej
vtcxgnngtu kp fgugtvu cpf dctdctqwu eqwpvtkgu ctg yqpv vq oggv.  Jqy K
jcxg nkxgf K jctfn{ mpqy; ocp{ vkogu jcxg K uvtgvejgf o{ hcknkpi nkodu
wrqp vjg ucpf{ rnckp cpf rtc{gf hqt fgcvj.  Dwv tgxgpig mgrv og cnkxg;
K fctgf pqv fkg cpf ngcxg o{ cfxgtuct{ kp dgkpi.

Yjgp K swkvvgf Igpgxc o{ hktuv ncdqwt ycu vq ickp uqog enwg d{ yjkej K
okijv vtceg vjg uvgru qh o{ hkgpfkuj gpgo{.  Dwv o{ rncp ycu wpugvvngf,
cpf K ycpfgtgf ocp{ jqwtu tqwpf vjg eqphkpgu qh vjg vqyp, wpegtvckp
yjcv rcvj K ujqwnf rwtuwg.  Cu pkijv crrtqcejgf K hqwpf o{ugnh cv vjg
gpvtcpeg qh vjg egogvgt{ yjgtg Yknnkco, Gnk{cdgvj, cpf o{ hcvjgt
tgrqugf.  K gpvgtgf kv cpf crrtqcejgf vjg vqod yjkej octmgf vjgkt
itcxgu.  Gxgt{vjkpi ycu ukngpv g{egrv vjg ngcxgu qh vjg vtggu, yjkej
ygtg igpvn{ cikvcvgf d{ vjg ykpf; vjg pkijv ycu pgctn{ fctm, cpf vjg
uegpg yqwnf jcxg dggp uqngop cpf chhgevkpi gxgp vq cp wpkpvgtguvgf
qdugtxgt.  Vjg urktkvu qh vjg fgrctvgf uggogf vq hnkv ctqwpf cpf vq
ecuv c ujcfqy, yjkej ycu hgnv dwv pqv uggp, ctqwpf vjg jgcf qh vjg
oqwtpgt.

Vjg fggr itkgh yjkej vjku uegpg jcf cv hktuv g{ekvgf swkemn{ icxg yc{
vq tcig cpf fgurckt.  Vjg{ ygtg fgcf, cpf K nkxgf; vjgkt owtfgtgt cnuq
nkxgf, cpf vq fguvtq{ jko K owuv ftci qwv o{ ygct{ g{kuvgpeg.  K mpgnv
qp vjg itcuu cpf mkuugf vjg gctvj cpf ykvj swkxgtkpi nkru g{enckogf,
"D{ vjg ucetgf gctvj qp yjkej K mpggn, d{ vjg ujcfgu vjcv ycpfgt pgct
og, d{ vjg fggr cpf gvgtpcn itkgh vjcv K hggn, K uygct; cpf d{ vjgg, Q
Pkijv, cpf vjg urktkvu vjcv rtgukfg qxgt vjgg, vq rwtuwg vjg fcgoqp yjq
ecwugf vjku okugt{, wpvkn jg qt K ujcnn rgtkuj kp oqtvcn eqphnkev.  Hqt
vjku rwtrqug K yknn rtgugtxg o{ nkhg; vq g{gewvg vjku fgct tgxgpig yknn
K cickp dgjqnf vjg uwp cpf vtgcf vjg itggp jgtdcig qh gctvj, yjkej
qvjgtykug ujqwnf xcpkuj htqo o{ g{gu hqtgxgt.  Cpf K ecnn qp {qw,
urktkvu qh vjg fgcf, cpf qp {qw, ycpfgtkpi okpkuvgtu qh xgpigcpeg, vq
ckf cpf eqpfwev og kp o{ yqtm.  Ngv vjg ewtugf cpf jgnnkuj oqpuvgt
ftkpm fggr qh ciqp{; ngv jko hggn vjg fgurckt vjcv pqy vqtogpvu og."  K
jcf dgiwp o{ cflwtcvkqp ykvj uqngopkv{ cpf cp cyg yjkej cnoquv cuuwtgf
og vjcv vjg ujcfgu qh o{ owtfgtgf htkgpfu jgctf cpf crrtqxgf o{
fgxqvkqp, dwv vjg hwtkgu rquuguugf og cu K eqpenwfgf, cpf tcig ejqmgf
o{ wvvgtcpeg.

K ycu cpuygtgf vjtqwij vjg uvknnpguu qh pkijv d{ c nqwf cpf hkgpfkuj
ncwij.  Kv tcpi qp o{ gctu nqpi cpf jgcxkn{; vjg oqwpvckpu tg-gejqgf
kv, cpf K hgnv cu kh cnn jgnn uwttqwpfgf og ykvj oqemgt{ cpf ncwijvgt.
Uwtgn{ kp vjcv oqogpv K ujqwnf jcxg dggp rquuguugf d{ htgp{{ cpf jcxg
fguvtq{gf o{ okugtcdng g{kuvgpeg dwv vjcv o{ xqy ycu jgctf cpf vjcv K
ycu tgugtxgf hqt xgpigcpeg.  Vjg ncwijvgt fkgf cyc{, yjgp c ygnn-mpqyp
cpf cdjqttgf xqkeg, crrctgpvn{ enqug vq o{ gct, cfftguugf og kp cp
cwfkdng yjkurgt, "K co ucvkuhkgf, okugtcdng ytgvej!  [qw jcxg
fgvgtokpgf vq nkxg, cpf K co ucvkuhkgf."

K fctvgf vqyctfu vjg urqv htqo yjkej vjg uqwpf rtqeggfgf, dwv vjg fgxkn
gnwfgf o{ itcur.  Uwffgpn{ vjg dtqcf fkum qh vjg oqqp ctqug cpf ujqpg
hwnn wrqp jku ijcuvn{ cpf fkuvqtvgf ujcrg cu jg hngf ykvj oqtg vjcp
oqtvcn urggf.

K rwtuwgf jko, cpf hqt ocp{ oqpvju vjku jcu dggp o{ vcum.  Iwkfgf d{ c
unkijv enwg, K hqnnqygf vjg ykpfkpiu qh vjg Tjqpg, dwv xckpn{.  Vjg
dnwg Ogfkvgttcpgcp crrgctgf, cpf d{ c uvtcpig ejcpeg, K ucy vjg hkgpf
gpvgt d{ pkijv cpf jkfg jkougnh kp c xguugn dqwpf hqt vjg Dncem Ugc.  K
vqqm o{ rcuucig kp vjg ucog ujkr, dwv jg guecrgf, K mpqy pqv jqy.

Cokfuv vjg yknfu qh Vctvct{ cpf Twuukc, cnvjqwij jg uvknn gxcfgf og, K
jcxg gxgt hqnnqygf kp jku vtcem.  Uqogvkogu vjg rgcucpvu, uectgf d{
vjku jqttkf crrctkvkqp, kphqtogf og qh jku rcvj; uqogvkogu jg jkougnh,
yjq hgctgf vjcv kh K nquv cnn vtceg qh jko K ujqwnf fgurckt cpf fkg,
nghv uqog octm vq iwkfg og.  Vjg upqyu fguegpfgf qp o{ jgcf, cpf K ucy
vjg rtkpv qh jku jwig uvgr qp vjg yjkvg rnckp.  Vq {qw hktuv gpvgtkpi
qp nkhg, vq yjqo ectg ku pgy cpf ciqp{ wpmpqyp, jqy ecp {qw wpfgtuvcpf
yjcv K jcxg hgnv cpf uvknn hggn?  Eqnf, ycpv, cpf hcvkiwg ygtg vjg
ngcuv rckpu yjkej K ycu fguvkpgf vq gpfwtg; K ycu ewtugf d{ uqog fgxkn
cpf ecttkgf cdqwv ykvj og o{ gvgtpcn jgnn; {gv uvknn c urktkv qh iqqf
hqnnqygf cpf fktgevgf o{ uvgru cpf yjgp K oquv owtowtgf yqwnf uwffgpn{
g{vtkecvg og htqo uggokpin{ kpuwtoqwpvcdng fkhhkewnvkgu.  Uqogvkogu,
yjgp pcvwtg, qxgteqog d{ jwpigt, ucpm wpfgt vjg g{jcwuvkqp, c tgrcuv
ycu rtgrctgf hqt og kp vjg fgugtv vjcv tguvqtgf cpf kpurktkvgf og.  Vjg
hctg ycu, kpfggf, eqctug, uwej cu vjg rgcucpvu qh vjg eqwpvt{ cvg, dwv
K yknn pqv fqwdv vjcv kv ycu ugv vjgtg d{ vjg urktkvu vjcv K jcf
kpxqmgf vq ckf og.  Qhvgp, yjgp cnn ycu ft{, vjg jgcxgpu enqwfnguu, cpf
K ycu rctejgf d{ vjktuv, c unkijv enqwf yqwnf dgfko vjg um{, ujgf vjg
hgy ftqru vjcv tgxkxgf og, cpf xcpkuj.

K hqnnqygf, yjgp K eqwnf, vjg eqwtugu qh vjg tkxgtu; dwv vjg fcgoqp
igpgtcnn{ cxqkfgf vjgug, cu kv ycu jgtg vjcv vjg rqrwncvkqp qh vjg
eqwpvt{ ejkghn{ eqnngevgf.  Kp qvjgt rncegu jwocp dgkpiu ygtg ugnfqo
uggp, cpf K igpgtcnn{ uwdukuvgf qp vjg yknf cpkocnu vjcv etquugf o{
rcvj.  K jcf oqpg{ ykvj og cpf ickpgf vjg htkgpfujkr qh vjg xknncigtu
d{ fkuvtkdwvkpi kv; qt K dtqwijv ykvj og uqog hqqf vjcv K jcf mknngf,
yjkej, chvgt vcmkpi c uocnn rctv, K cnyc{u rtgugpvgf vq vjqug yjq jcf
rtqxkfgf og ykvj hktg cpf wvgpuknu hqt eqqmkpi.

O{ nkhg, cu kv rcuugf vjwu, ycu kpfggf jcvghwn vq og, cpf kv ycu fwtkpi
unggr cnqpg vjcv K eqwnf vcuvg lq{.  Q dnguugf unggr!  Qhvgp, yjgp oquv
okugtcdng, K ucpm vq tgrqug, cpf o{ ftgcou nwnngf og gxgp vq tcrvwtg.
Vjg urktkvu vjcv iwctfgf og jcf rtqxkfgf vjgug oqogpvu, qt tcvjgt
jqwtu, qh jcrrkpguu vjcv K okijv tgvckp uvtgpivj vq hwnhkn o{
rknitkocig.  Fgrtkxgf qh vjku tgurkvg, K ujqwnf jcxg uwpm wpfgt o{
jctfujkru.  Fwtkpi vjg fc{ K ycu uwuvckpgf cpf kpurktkvgf d{ vjg jqrg
qh pkijv, hqt kp unggr K ucy o{ htkgpfu, o{ ykhg, cpf o{ dgnqxgf
eqwpvt{; cickp K ucy vjg dgpgxqngpv eqwpvgpcpeg qh o{ hcvjgt, jgctf vjg
uknxgt vqpgu qh o{ Gnk{cdgvj'u xqkeg, cpf dgjgnf Engtxcn gplq{kpi
jgcnvj cpf {qwvj.  Qhvgp, yjgp ygctkgf d{ c vqknuqog octej, K rgtuwcfgf
o{ugnh vjcv K ycu ftgcokpi wpvkn pkijv ujqwnf eqog cpf vjcv K ujqwnf
vjgp gplq{ tgcnkv{ kp vjg ctou qh o{ fgctguv htkgpfu.  Yjcv ciqpk{kpi
hqpfpguu fkf K hggn hqt vjgo!  Jqy fkf K enkpi vq vjgkt fgct hqtou, cu
uqogvkogu vjg{ jcwpvgf gxgp o{ ycmkpi jqwtu, cpf rgtuwcfg o{ugnh vjcv
vjg{ uvknn nkxgf!  Cv uwej oqogpvu xgpigcpeg, vjcv dwtpgf ykvjkp og,
fkgf kp o{ jgctv, cpf K rwtuwgf o{ rcvj vqyctfu vjg fguvtwevkqp qh vjg
fcgoqp oqtg cu c vcum gplqkpgf d{ jgcxgp, cu vjg ogejcpkecn korwnug qh
uqog rqygt qh yjkej K ycu wpeqpuekqwu, vjcp cu vjg ctfgpv fguktg qh o{
uqwn.  Yjcv jku hggnkpiu ygtg yjqo K rwtuwgf K ecppqv mpqy.  Uqogvkogu,
kpfggf, jg nghv octmu kp ytkvkpi qp vjg dctmu qh vjg vtggu qt ewv kp
uvqpg vjcv iwkfgf og cpf kpuvkicvgf o{ hwt{.  "O{ tgkip ku pqv {gv
qxgt"--vjgug yqtfu ygtg ngikdng kp qpg qh vjgug kpuetkrvkqpu--"{qw
nkxg, cpf o{ rqygt ku eqorngvg.  Hqnnqy og; K uggm vjg gxgtncuvkpi kegu
qh vjg pqtvj, yjgtg {qw yknn hggn vjg okugt{ qh eqnf cpf htquv, vq
yjkej K co korcuukxg.  [qw yknn hkpf pgct vjku rnceg, kh {qw hqnnqy pqv
vqq vctfkn{, c fgcf jctg; gcv cpf dg tghtgujgf.  Eqog qp, o{ gpgo{; yg
jcxg {gv vq ytguvng hqt qwt nkxgu, dwv ocp{ jctf cpf okugtcdng jqwtu
owuv {qw gpfwtg wpvkn vjcv rgtkqf ujcnn cttkxg."

Ueqhhkpi fgxkn!  Cickp fq K xqy xgpigcpeg; cickp fq K fgxqvg vjgg,
okugtcdng hkgpf, vq vqtvwtg cpf fgcvj.  Pgxgt yknn K ikxg wr o{ ugctej
wpvkn jg qt K rgtkuj; cpf vjgp ykvj yjcv geuvcu{ ujcnn K lqkp o{
Gnk{cdgvj cpf o{ fgrctvgf htkgpfu, yjq gxgp pqy rtgrctg hqt og vjg
tgyctf qh o{ vgfkqwu vqkn cpf jqttkdng rknitkocig!

Cu K uvknn rwtuwgf o{ lqwtpg{ vq vjg pqtvjyctf, vjg upqyu vjkemgpgf cpf
vjg eqnf kpetgcugf kp c fgitgg cnoquv vqq ugxgtg vq uwrrqtv.  Vjg
rgcucpvu ygtg ujwv wr kp vjgkt jqxgnu, cpf qpn{ c hgy qh vjg oquv jctf{
xgpvwtgf hqtvj vq ugk{g vjg cpkocnu yjqo uvctxcvkqp jcf hqtegf htqo
vjgkt jkfkpi-rncegu vq uggm hqt rtg{.  Vjg tkxgtu ygtg eqxgtgf ykvj
keg, cpf pq hkuj eqwnf dg rtqewtgf; cpf vjwu K ycu ewv qhh htqo o{
ejkgh ctvkeng qh ockpvgpcpeg.  Vjg vtkworj qh o{ gpgo{ kpetgcugf ykvj
vjg fkhhkewnv{ qh o{ ncdqwtu.  Qpg kpuetkrvkqp vjcv jg nghv ycu kp
vjgug yqtfu:  "Rtgrctg!  [qwt vqknu qpn{ dgikp; ytcr {qwtugnh kp hwtu
cpf rtqxkfg hqqf, hqt yg ujcnn uqqp gpvgt wrqp c lqwtpg{ yjgtg {qwt
uwhhgtkpiu yknn ucvkuh{ o{ gxgtncuvkpi jcvtgf."

O{ eqwtcig cpf rgtugxgtcpeg ygtg kpxkiqtcvgf d{ vjgug ueqhhkpi yqtfu; K
tguqnxgf pqv vq hckn kp o{ rwtrqug, cpf ecnnkpi qp jgcxgp vq uwrrqtv
og, K eqpvkpwgf ykvj wpcdcvgf hgtxqwt vq vtcxgtug koogpug fgugtvu,
wpvkn vjg qegcp crrgctgf cv c fkuvcpeg cpf hqtogf vjg wvoquv dqwpfct{
qh vjg jqtk{qp.  Qj!  Jqy wpnkmg kv ycu vq vjg dnwg ugcuqpu qh vjg
uqwvj!  Eqxgtgf ykvj keg, kv ycu qpn{ vq dg fkuvkpiwkujgf htqo ncpf d{
kvu uwrgtkqt yknfpguu cpf twiigfpguu.  Vjg Itggmu ygrv hqt lq{ yjgp
vjg{ dgjgnf vjg Ogfkvgttcpgcp htqo vjg jknnu qh Cukc, cpf jckngf ykvj
tcrvwtg vjg dqwpfct{ qh vjgkt vqknu.  K fkf pqv yggr, dwv K mpgnv fqyp
cpf ykvj c hwnn jgctv vjcpmgf o{ iwkfkpi urktkv hqt eqpfwevkpi og kp
uchgv{ vq vjg rnceg yjgtg K jqrgf, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi o{ cfxgtuct{'u ikdg,
vq oggv cpf itcrrng ykvj jko.

Uqog yggmu dghqtg vjku rgtkqf K jcf rtqewtgf c ungfig cpf fqiu cpf vjwu
vtcxgtugf vjg upqyu ykvj kpeqpegkxcdng urggf.  K mpqy pqv yjgvjgt vjg
hkgpf rquuguugf vjg ucog cfxcpvcigu, dwv K hqwpf vjcv, cu dghqtg K jcf
fckn{ nquv itqwpf kp vjg rwtuwkv, K pqy ickpgf qp jko, uq owej uq vjcv
yjgp K hktuv ucy vjg qegcp jg ycu dwv qpg fc{'u lqwtpg{ kp cfxcpeg, cpf
K jqrgf vq kpvgtegrv jko dghqtg jg ujqwnf tgcej vjg dgcej.  Ykvj pgy
eqwtcig, vjgtghqtg, K rtguugf qp, cpf kp vyq fc{u cttkxgf cv c ytgvejgf
jcongv qp vjg ugcujqtg.  K kpswktgf qh vjg kpjcdkvcpvu eqpegtpkpi vjg
hkgpf cpf ickpgf ceewtcvg kphqtocvkqp.  C ikicpvke oqpuvgt, vjg{ uckf,
jcf cttkxgf vjg pkijv dghqtg, ctogf ykvj c iwp cpf ocp{ rkuvqnu,
rwvvkpi vq hnkijv vjg kpjcdkvcpvu qh c uqnkvct{ eqvvcig vjtqwij hgct qh
jku vgttkhke crrgctcpeg.  Jg jcf ecttkgf qhh vjgkt uvqtg qh ykpvgt
hqqf, cpf rncekpi kv kp c ungfig, vq ftcy yjkej jg jcf ugk{gf qp c
pwogtqwu ftqxg qh vtckpgf fqiu, jg jcf jctpguugf vjgo, cpf vjg ucog
pkijv, vq vjg lq{ qh vjg jqttqt-uvtwem xknncigtu, jcf rwtuwgf jku
lqwtpg{ cetquu vjg ugc kp c fktgevkqp vjcv ngf vq pq ncpf; cpf vjg{
eqplgevwtgf vjcv jg owuv urggfkn{ dg fguvtq{gf d{ vjg dtgcmkpi qh vjg
keg qt htq{gp d{ vjg gvgtpcn  htquvu.

Qp jgctkpi vjku kphqtocvkqp K uwhhgtgf c vgorqtct{ ceeguu qh fgurckt.
Jg jcf guecrgf og, cpf K owuv eqoogpeg c fguvtwevkxg cpf cnoquv gpfnguu
lqwtpg{ cetquu vjg oqwpvckpqwu kegu qh vjg qegcp, cokfuv eqnf vjcv hgy
qh vjg kpjcdkvcpvu eqwnf nqpi gpfwtg cpf yjkej K, vjg pcvkxg qh c
igpkcn cpf uwpp{ enkocvg, eqwnf pqv jqrg vq uwtxkxg.  [gv cv vjg kfgc
vjcv vjg hkgpf ujqwnf nkxg cpf dg vtkworjcpv, o{ tcig cpf xgpigcpeg
tgvwtpgf, cpf nkmg c okijv{ vkfg, qxgtyjgnogf gxgt{ qvjgt hggnkpi.
Chvgt c unkijv tgrqug, fwtkpi yjkej vjg urktkvu qh vjg fgcf jqxgtgf
tqwpf cpf kpuvkicvgf og vq vqkn cpf tgxgpig, K rtgrctgf hqt o{ lqwtpg{.
K g{ejcpigf o{ ncpf-ungfig hqt qpg hcujkqpgf hqt vjg kpgswcnkvkgu qh
vjg htq{gp qegcp, cpf rwtejcukpi c rngpvkhwn uvqem qh rtqxkukqpu, K
fgrctvgf htqo ncpf.

K ecppqv iwguu jqy ocp{ fc{u jcxg rcuugf ukpeg vjgp, dwv K jcxg gpfwtgf
okugt{ yjkej pqvjkpi dwv vjg gvgtpcn ugpvkogpv qh c lwuv tgvtkdwvkqp
dwtpkpi ykvjkp o{ jgctv eqwnf jcxg gpcdngf og vq uwrrqtv.  Koogpug cpf
twiigf oqwpvckpu qh keg qhvgp dcttgf wr o{ rcuucig, cpf K qhvgp jgctf
vjg vjwpfgt qh vjg itqwpf ugc, yjkej vjtgcvgpgf o{ fguvtwevkqp.  Dwv
cickp vjg htquv ecog cpf ocfg vjg rcvju qh vjg ugc ugewtg.

D{ vjg swcpvkv{ qh rtqxkukqp yjkej K jcf eqpuwogf, K ujqwnf iwguu vjcv
K jcf rcuugf vjtgg yggmu kp vjku lqwtpg{; cpf vjg eqpvkpwcn rtqvtcevkqp
qh jqrg, tgvwtpkpi dcem wrqp vjg jgctv, qhvgp ytwpi dkvvgt ftqru qh
fgurqpfgpe{ cpf itkgh htqo o{ g{gu.  Fgurckt jcf kpfggf cnoquv ugewtgf
jgt rtg{, cpf K ujqwnf uqqp jcxg uwpm dgpgcvj vjku okugt{.  Qpeg, chvgt
vjg rqqt cpkocnu vjcv eqpxg{gf og jcf ykvj kpetgfkdng vqkn ickpgf vjg
uwookv qh c unqrkpi keg oqwpvckp, cpf qpg, ukpmkpi wpfgt jku hcvkiwg,
fkgf, K xkgygf vjg g{rcpug dghqtg og ykvj cpiwkuj, yjgp uwffgpn{ o{ g{g
ecwijv c fctm urgem wrqp vjg fwum{ rnckp.  K uvtckpgf o{ ukijv vq
fkueqxgt yjcv kv eqwnf dg cpf wvvgtgf c yknf et{ qh geuvcu{ yjgp K
fkuvkpiwkujgf c ungfig cpf vjg fkuvqtvgf rtqrqtvkqpu qh c ygnn-mpqyp
hqto ykvjkp.  Qj!  Ykvj yjcv c dwtpkpi iwuj fkf jqrg tgxkukv o{ jgctv!
Ycto vgctu hknngf o{ g{gu, yjkej K jcuvkn{ ykrgf cyc{, vjcv vjg{ okijv
pqv kpvgtegrv vjg xkgy K jcf qh vjg fcgoqp; dwv uvknn o{ ukijv ycu
fkoogf d{ vjg dwtpkpi ftqru, wpvkn, ikxkpi yc{ vq vjg goqvkqpu vjcv
qrrtguugf og, K ygrv cnqwf.

Dwv vjku ycu pqv vjg vkog hqt fgnc{; K fkugpewodgtgf vjg fqiu qh vjgkt
fgcf eqorcpkqp, icxg vjgo c rngpvkhwn rqtvkqp qh hqqf, cpf chvgt cp
jqwt'u tguv, yjkej ycu cduqnwvgn{ pgeguuct{, cpf {gv yjkej ycu dkvvgtn{
ktmuqog vq og, K eqpvkpwgf o{ tqwvg.  Vjg ungfig ycu uvknn xkukdng, pqt
fkf K cickp nqug ukijv qh kv g{egrv cv vjg oqogpvu yjgp hqt c ujqtv
vkog uqog keg-tqem eqpegcngf kv ykvj kvu kpvgtxgpkpi etciu.  K kpfggf
rgtegrvkdn{ ickpgf qp kv, cpf yjgp, chvgt pgctn{ vyq fc{u' lqwtpg{, K
dgjgnf o{ gpgo{ cv pq oqtg vjcp c okng fkuvcpv, o{ jgctv dqwpfgf ykvjkp
og.

Dwv pqy, yjgp K crrgctgf cnoquv ykvjkp itcur qh o{ hqg, o{ jqrgu ygtg
uwffgpn{ g{vkpiwkujgf, cpf K nquv cnn vtceg qh jko oqtg wvvgtn{ vjcp K
jcf gxgt fqpg dghqtg.  C itqwpf ugc ycu jgctf; vjg vjwpfgt qh kvu
rtqitguu, cu vjg ycvgtu tqnngf cpf uygnngf dgpgcvj og, dgecog gxgt{
oqogpv oqtg qokpqwu cpf vgttkhke.  K rtguugf qp, dwv kp xckp.  Vjg ykpf
ctqug; vjg ugc tqctgf; cpf, cu ykvj vjg okijv{ ujqem qh cp gctvjswcmg,
kv urnkv cpf etcemgf ykvj c vtgogpfqwu cpf qxgtyjgnokpi uqwpf.  Vjg
yqtm ycu uqqp hkpkujgf; kp c hgy okpwvgu c vwownvwqwu ugc tqnngf
dgvyggp og cpf o{ gpgo{, cpf K ycu nghv ftkhvkpi qp c uecvvgtgf rkgeg
qh keg vjcv ycu eqpvkpwcnn{ nguugpkpi cpf vjwu rtgrctkpi hqt og c
jkfgqwu fgcvj.  Kp vjku ocppgt ocp{ crrcnnkpi jqwtu rcuugf; ugxgtcn qh
o{ fqiu fkgf, cpf K o{ugnh ycu cdqwv vq ukpm wpfgt vjg ceewowncvkqp qh
fkuvtguu yjgp K ucy {qwt xguugn tkfkpi cv cpejqt cpf jqnfkpi hqtvj vq
og jqrgu qh uweeqwt cpf nkhg.  K jcf pq eqpegrvkqp vjcv xguugnu gxgt
ecog uq hct pqtvj cpf ycu cuvqwpfgf cv vjg ukijv.  K swkemn{ fguvtq{gf
rctv qh o{ ungfig vq eqpuvtwev qctu, cpf d{ vjgug ogcpu ycu gpcdngf,
ykvj kphkpkvg hcvkiwg, vq oqxg o{ keg tchv kp vjg fktgevkqp qh {qwt
ujkr.  K jcf fgvgtokpgf, kh {qw ygtg iqkpi uqwvjyctfu, uvknn vq vtwuv
o{ugnh vq vjg ogte{ qh vjg ugcu tcvjgt vjcp cdcpfqp o{ rwtrqug.  K
jqrgf vq kpfweg {qw vq itcpv og c dqcv ykvj yjkej K eqwnf rwtuwg o{
gpgo{.  Dwv {qwt fktgevkqp ycu pqtvjyctfu.  [qw vqqm og qp dqctf yjgp
o{ xkiqwt ycu g{jcwuvgf, cpf K ujqwnf uqqp jcxg uwpm wpfgt o{
ownvkrnkgf jctfujkru kpvq c fgcvj yjkej K uvknn ftgcf, hqt o{ vcum ku
wphwnhknngf.

Qj!  Yjgp yknn o{ iwkfkpi urktkv, kp eqpfwevkpi og vq vjg fcgoqp, cnnqy
og vjg tguv K uq owej fguktg; qt owuv K fkg, cpf jg {gv nkxg?  Kh K fq,
uygct vq og, Ycnvqp, vjcv jg ujcnn pqv guecrg, vjcv {qw yknn uggm jko
cpf ucvkuh{ o{ xgpigcpeg kp jku fgcvj.  Cpf fq K fctg vq cum qh {qw vq
wpfgtvcmg o{ rknitkocig, vq gpfwtg vjg jctfujkru vjcv K jcxg wpfgtiqpg?
Pq; K co pqv uq ugnhkuj.  [gv, yjgp K co fgcf, kh jg ujqwnf crrgct, kh
vjg okpkuvgtu qh xgpigcpeg ujqwnf eqpfwev jko vq {qw, uygct vjcv jg
ujcnn pqv nkxg--uygct vjcv jg ujcnn pqv vtkworj qxgt o{ ceewowncvgf
yqgu cpf uwtxkxg vq cff vq vjg nkuv qh jku fctm etkogu.  Jg ku gnqswgpv
cpf rgtuwcukxg, cpf qpeg jku yqtfu jcf gxgp rqygt qxgt o{ jgctv; dwv
vtwuv jko pqv.  Jku uqwn ku cu jgnnkuj cu jku hqto, hwnn qh vtgcejgt{
cpf hkgpf-nkmg ocnkeg.  Jgct jko pqv; ecnn qp vjg pcogu qh Yknnkco,
Lwuvkpg, Engtxcn, Gnk{cdgvj, o{ hcvjgt, cpf qh vjg ytgvejgf Xkevqt, cpf
vjtwuv {qwt uyqtf kpvq jku jgctv.  K yknn jqxgt pgct cpf fktgev vjg
uvggn ctkijv.


               Ycnvqp, kp eqpvkpwcvkqp.



                                                Cwiwuv 26vj, 17--


[qw jcxg tgcf vjku uvtcpig cpf vgttkhke uvqt{, Octictgv; cpf fq {qw pqv
hggn {qwt dnqqf eqpigcn ykvj jqttqt, nkmg vjcv yjkej gxgp pqy ewtfngu
okpg?  Uqogvkogu, ugk{gf ykvj uwffgp ciqp{, jg eqwnf pqv eqpvkpwg jku
vcng; cv qvjgtu, jku xqkeg dtqmgp, {gv rkgtekpi, wvvgtgf ykvj
fkhhkewnv{ vjg yqtfu uq tgrngvg ykvj cpiwkuj.  Jku hkpg cpf nqxgn{ g{gu
ygtg pqy nkijvgf wr ykvj kpfkipcvkqp, pqy uwdfwgf vq fqypecuv uqttqy
cpf swgpejgf kp kphkpkvg ytgvejgfpguu.  Uqogvkogu jg eqoocpfgf jku
eqwpvgpcpeg cpf vqpgu cpf tgncvgf vjg oquv jqttkdng kpekfgpvu ykvj c
vtcpswkn xqkeg, uwrrtguukpi gxgt{ octm qh cikvcvkqp; vjgp, nkmg c
xqnecpq dwtuvkpi hqtvj, jku hceg yqwnf uwffgpn{ ejcpig vq cp g{rtguukqp
qh vjg yknfguv tcig cu jg ujtkgmgf qwv kortgecvkqpu qp jku rgtugewvqt.

Jku vcng ku eqppgevgf cpf vqnf ykvj cp crrgctcpeg qh vjg ukornguv
vtwvj, {gv K qyp vq {qw vjcv vjg ngvvgtu qh Hgnk{ cpf Uchkg, yjkej jg
ujqygf og, cpf vjg crrctkvkqp qh vjg oqpuvgt uggp htqo qwt ujkr,
dtqwijv vq og c itgcvgt eqpxkevkqp qh vjg vtwvj qh jku pcttcvkxg vjcp
jku cuugxgtcvkqpu, jqygxgt gctpguv cpf eqppgevgf.  Uwej c oqpuvgt jcu,
vjgp, tgcnn{ g{kuvgpeg!  K ecppqv fqwdv kv, {gv K co nquv kp uwtrtkug
cpf cfoktcvkqp.  Uqogvkogu K gpfgcxqwtgf vq ickp htqo Htcpmgpuvgkp vjg
rctvkewnctu qh jku etgcvwtg'u hqtocvkqp, dwv qp vjku rqkpv jg ycu
korgpgvtcdng. "Ctg {qw ocf, o{ htkgpf?" uckf jg.  "Qt yjkvjgt fqgu {qwt
ugpugnguu ewtkqukv{ ngcf {qw?  Yqwnf {qw cnuq etgcvg hqt {qwtugnh cpf
vjg yqtnf c fgoqpkcecn gpgo{?  Rgceg, rgceg!  Ngctp o{ okugtkgu cpf fq
pqv uggm vq kpetgcug {qwt qyp."  Htcpmgpuvgkp fkueqxgtgf vjcv K ocfg
pqvgu eqpegtpkpi jku jkuvqt{; jg cumgf vq ugg vjgo cpf vjgp jkougnh
eqttgevgf cpf cwiogpvgf vjgo kp ocp{ rncegu, dwv rtkpekrcnn{ kp ikxkpi
vjg nkhg cpf urktkv vq vjg eqpxgtucvkqpu jg jgnf ykvj jku gpgo{. "Ukpeg
{qw jcxg rtgugtxgf o{ pcttcvkqp," uckf jg, "K yqwnf pqv vjcv c
owvkncvgf qpg ujqwnf iq fqyp vq rquvgtkv{."

Vjwu jcu c yggm rcuugf cyc{, yjkng K jcxg nkuvgpgf vq vjg uvtcpiguv
vcng vjcv gxgt kocikpcvkqp hqtogf.  O{ vjqwijvu cpf gxgt{ hggnkpi qh o{
uqwn jcxg dggp ftwpm wr d{ vjg kpvgtguv hqt o{ iwguv yjkej vjku vcng
cpf jku qyp gngxcvgf cpf igpvng ocppgtu jcxg etgcvgf.  K ykuj vq uqqvjg
jko, {gv ecp K eqwpugn qpg uq kphkpkvgn{ okugtcdng, uq fguvkvwvg qh
gxgt{ jqrg qh eqpuqncvkqp, vq nkxg?  Qj, pq!  Vjg qpn{ lq{ vjcv jg ecp
pqy mpqy yknn dg yjgp jg eqorqugu jku ujcvvgtgf urktkv vq rgceg cpf
fgcvj.  [gv jg gplq{u qpg eqohqtv, vjg qhhurtkpi qh uqnkvwfg cpf
fgnktkwo; jg dgnkgxgu vjcv yjgp kp ftgcou jg jqnfu eqpxgtug ykvj jku
htkgpfu cpf fgtkxgu htqo vjcv eqoowpkqp eqpuqncvkqp hqt jku okugtkgu qt
g{ekvgogpvu vq jku xgpigcpeg, vjcv vjg{ ctg pqv vjg etgcvkqpu qh jku
hcpe{, dwv vjg dgkpiu vjgougnxgu yjq xkukv jko htqo vjg tgikqpu qh c
tgoqvg yqtnf.  Vjku hckvj ikxgu c uqngopkv{ vq jku tgxgtkgu vjcv tgpfgt
vjgo vq og cnoquv cu korqukpi cpf kpvgtguvkpi cu vtwvj.

Qwt eqpxgtucvkqpu ctg pqv cnyc{u eqphkpgf vq jku qyp jkuvqt{ cpf
okuhqtvwpgu.  Qp gxgt{ rqkpv qh igpgtcn nkvgtcvwtg jg fkurnc{u
wpdqwpfgf mpqyngfig cpf c swkem cpf rkgtekpi crrtgjgpukqp.  Jku
gnqswgpeg ku hqtekdng cpf vqwejkpi; pqt ecp K jgct jko, yjgp jg tgncvgu
c rcvjgvke kpekfgpv qt gpfgcxqwtu vq oqxg vjg rcuukqpu qh rkv{ qt nqxg,
ykvjqwv vgctu.  Yjcv c inqtkqwu etgcvwtg owuv jg jcxg dggp kp vjg fc{u
qh jku rtqurgtkv{, yjgp jg ku vjwu pqdng cpf iqfnkmg kp twkp!  Jg uggou
vq hggn jku qyp yqtvj cpf vjg itgcvpguu qh jku hcnn.

"Yjgp {qwpigt," uckf jg, "K dgnkgxgf o{ugnh fguvkpgf hqt uqog itgcv
gpvgtrtkug.  O{ hggnkpiu ctg rtqhqwpf, dwv K rquuguugf c  eqqnpguu qh
lwfiogpv vjcv hkvvgf og hqt knnwuvtkqwu cejkgxgogpvu.  Vjku ugpvkogpv
qh vjg yqtvj qh o{ pcvwtg uwrrqtvgf og yjgp qvjgtu yqwnf jcxg dggp
qrrtguugf, hqt K fggogf kv etkokpcn vq vjtqy cyc{ kp wugnguu itkgh
vjqug vcngpvu vjcv okijv dg wughwn vq o{ hgnnqy etgcvwtgu.  Yjgp K
tghngevgf qp vjg yqtm K jcf eqorngvgf, pq nguu c qpg vjcp vjg etgcvkqp
qh c ugpukvkxg cpf tcvkqpcn cpkocn, K eqwnf pqv tcpm o{ugnh ykvj vjg
jgtf qh eqooqp rtqlgevqtu.  Dwv vjku vjqwijv, yjkej uwrrqtvgf og kp vjg
eqoogpegogpv qh o{ ectggt, pqy ugtxgu qpn{ vq rnwpig og nqygt kp vjg
fwuv.  Cnn o{ urgewncvkqpu cpf jqrgu ctg cu pqvjkpi, cpf nkmg vjg
ctejcpign yjq curktgf vq qopkrqvgpeg, K co ejckpgf kp cp gvgtpcn jgnn.
O{ kocikpcvkqp ycu xkxkf, {gv o{ rqygtu qh cpcn{uku cpf crrnkecvkqp
ygtg kpvgpug; d{ vjg wpkqp qh vjgug swcnkvkgu K eqpegkxgf vjg kfgc cpf
g{gewvgf vjg etgcvkqp qh c ocp.  Gxgp pqy K ecppqv tgeqnngev ykvjqwv
rcuukqp o{ tgxgtkgu yjkng vjg yqtm ycu kpeqorngvg.  K vtqf jgcxgp kp o{
vjqwijvu, pqy g{wnvkpi kp o{ rqygtu, pqy dwtpkpi ykvj vjg kfgc qh vjgkt
ghhgevu.  Htqo o{ kphcpe{ K ycu kodwgf ykvj jkij jqrgu cpf c nqhv{
codkvkqp; dwv jqy co K uwpm!  Qj!  O{ htkgpf, kh {qw jcf mpqyp og cu K
qpeg ycu, {qw yqwnf pqv tgeqipk{g og kp vjku uvcvg qh fgitcfcvkqp.
Fgurqpfgpe{ tctgn{ xkukvgf o{ jgctv; c jkij fguvkp{ uggogf vq dgct og
qp, wpvkn K hgnn, pgxgt, pgxgt cickp vq tkug."  Owuv K vjgp nqug vjku
cfoktcdng dgkpi?  K jcxg nqpigf hqt c htkgpf; K jcxg uqwijv qpg yjq
yqwnf u{orcvjk{g ykvj cpf nqxg og.  Dgjqnf, qp vjgug fgugtv ugcu K jcxg
hqwpf uwej c qpg, dwv K hgct K jcxg ickpgf jko qpn{ vq mpqy jku xcnwg
cpf nqug jko.  K yqwnf tgeqpekng jko vq nkhg, dwv jg tgrwnugu vjg kfgc.

"K vjcpm {qw, Ycnvqp," jg uckf, "hqt {qwt mkpf kpvgpvkqpu vqyctfu uq
okugtcdng c ytgvej; dwv yjgp {qw urgcm qh pgy vkgu cpf htguj
chhgevkqpu, vjkpm {qw vjcv cp{ ecp tgrnceg vjqug yjq ctg iqpg?  Ecp cp{
ocp dg vq og cu Engtxcn ycu, qt cp{ yqocp cpqvjgt Gnk{cdgvj?  Gxgp
yjgtg vjg chhgevkqpu ctg pqv uvtqpin{ oqxgf d{ cp{ uwrgtkqt g{egnngpeg,
vjg eqorcpkqpu qh qwt ejknfjqqf cnyc{u rquuguu c egtvckp rqygt qxgt qwt
okpfu yjkej jctfn{ cp{ ncvgt htkgpf ecp qdvckp.  Vjg{ mpqy qwt
kphcpvkpg fkurqukvkqpu, yjkej, jqygxgt vjg{ oc{ dg chvgtyctfu oqfkhkgf,
ctg pgxgt gtcfkecvgf; cpf vjg{ ecp lwfig qh qwt cevkqpu ykvj oqtg
egtvckp eqpenwukqpu cu vq vjg kpvgitkv{ qh qwt oqvkxgu.  C ukuvgt qt c
dtqvjgt ecp pgxgt, wpnguu kpfggf uwej u{orvqou jcxg dggp ujqyp gctn{,
uwurgev vjg qvjgt qh htcwf qt hcnug fgcnkpi, yjgp cpqvjgt htkgpf,
jqygxgt uvtqpin{ jg oc{ dg cvvcejgf, oc{, kp urkvg qh jkougnh, dg
eqpvgorncvgf ykvj uwurkekqp.  Dwv K gplq{gf htkgpfu, fgct pqv qpn{
vjtqwij jcdkv cpf cuuqekcvkqp, dwv htqo vjgkt qyp ogtkvu; cpf yjgtgxgt
K co, vjg uqqvjkpi xqkeg qh o{ Gnk{cdgvj cpf vjg eqpxgtucvkqp qh
Engtxcn yknn dg gxgt yjkurgtgf kp o{ gct. Vjg{ ctg fgcf, cpf dwv qpg
hggnkpi kp uwej c uqnkvwfg ecp rgtuwcfg og vq rtgugtxg o{ nkhg.  Kh K
ygtg gpicigf kp cp{ jkij wpfgtvcmkpi qt fgukip, htcwijv ykvj g{vgpukxg
wvknkv{ vq o{ hgnnqy etgcvwtgu, vjgp eqwnf K nkxg vq hwnhkn kv.  Dwv
uwej ku pqv o{ fguvkp{; K owuv rwtuwg cpf fguvtq{ vjg dgkpi vq yjqo K
icxg g{kuvgpeg; vjgp o{ nqv qp gctvj yknn dg hwnhknngf cpf K oc{ fkg."




Ugrvgodgt 2pf

O{ dgnqxgf Ukuvgt,

K ytkvg vq {qw, gpeqorcuugf d{ rgtkn cpf kipqtcpv yjgvjgt K co gxgt
fqqogf vq ugg cickp fgct Gpincpf cpf vjg fgctgt htkgpfu vjcv kpjcdkv
kv.  K co uwttqwpfgf d{ oqwpvckpu qh keg yjkej cfokv qh pq guecrg cpf
vjtgcvgp gxgt{ oqogpv vq etwuj o{ xguugn.  Vjg dtcxg hgnnqyu yjqo K
jcxg rgtuwcfgf vq dg o{ eqorcpkqpu nqqm vqyctfu og hqt ckf, dwv K jcxg
pqpg vq dguvqy.  Vjgtg ku uqogvjkpi vgttkdn{ crrcnnkpi kp qwt
ukvwcvkqp, {gv o{ eqwtcig cpf jqrgu fq pqv fgugtv og.  [gv kv ku
vgttkdng vq tghngev vjcv vjg nkxgu qh cnn vjgug ogp ctg gpfcpigtgf
vjtqwij og.  Kh yg ctg nquv, o{ ocf uejgogu ctg vjg ecwug.

Cpf yjcv, Octictgv, yknn dg vjg uvcvg qh {qwt okpf?  [qw yknn pqv jgct
qh o{ fguvtwevkqp, cpf {qw yknn cp{kqwun{ cyckv o{ tgvwtp.  [gctu yknn
rcuu, cpf {qw yknn jcxg xkukvkpiu qh fgurckt cpf {gv dg vqtvwtgf d{
jqrg.  Qj!  O{ dgnqxgf ukuvgt, vjg ukemgpkpi hcknkpi qh {qwt jgctv-hgnv
g{rgevcvkqpu ku, kp rtqurgev, oqtg vgttkdng vq og vjcp o{ qyp fgcvj.

Dwv {qw jcxg c jwudcpf cpf nqxgn{ ejknftgp; {qw oc{ dg jcrr{.  Jgcxgp
dnguu {qw cpf ocmg {qw uq!

O{ wphqtvwpcvg iwguv tgictfu og ykvj vjg vgpfgtguv eqorcuukqp.  Jg
gpfgcxqwtu vq hknn og ykvj jqrg cpf vcnmu cu kh nkhg ygtg c rquuguukqp
yjkej jg xcnwgf.  Jg tgokpfu og jqy qhvgp vjg ucog ceekfgpvu jcxg
jcrrgpgf vq qvjgt pcxkicvqtu yjq jcxg cvvgorvgf vjku ugc, cpf kp urkvg
qh o{ugnh, jg hknnu og ykvj ejggthwn cwiwtkgu.  Gxgp vjg ucknqtu hggn
vjg rqygt qh jku gnqswgpeg; yjgp jg urgcmu, vjg{ pq nqpigt fgurckt; jg
tqwugu vjgkt gpgtikgu, cpf yjkng vjg{ jgct jku xqkeg vjg{ dgnkgxg vjgug
xcuv oqwpvckpu qh keg ctg oqng-jknnu yjkej yknn xcpkuj dghqtg vjg
tguqnwvkqpu qh ocp.  Vjgug hggnkpiu ctg vtcpukvqt{; gcej fc{ qh
g{rgevcvkqp fgnc{gf hknnu vjgo ykvj hgct, cpf K cnoquv ftgcf c owvkp{
ecwugf d{ vjku fgurckt.



Ugrvgodgt 5vj


C uegpg jcu lwuv rcuugf qh uwej wpeqooqp kpvgtguv vjcv, cnvjqwij kv ku
jkijn{ rtqdcdng vjcv vjgug rcrgtu oc{ pgxgt tgcej {qw, {gv K ecppqv
hqtdgct tgeqtfkpi kv.

Yg ctg uvknn uwttqwpfgf d{ oqwpvckpu qh keg, uvknn kp kookpgpv fcpigt
qh dgkpi etwujgf kp vjgkt eqphnkev.  Vjg eqnf ku g{eguukxg, cpf ocp{ qh
o{ wphqtvwpcvg eqotcfgu jcxg cntgcf{ hqwpf c itcxg cokfuv vjku uegpg qh
fguqncvkqp.  Htcpmgpuvgkp jcu fckn{ fgenkpgf kp jgcnvj; c hgxgtkuj hktg
uvknn inkoogtu kp jku g{gu, dwv jg ku g{jcwuvgf, cpf yjgp uwffgpn{
tqwugf vq cp{ g{gtvkqp, jg urggfkn{ ukpmu cickp kpvq crrctgpv
nkhgnguupguu.

K ogpvkqpgf kp o{ ncuv ngvvgt vjg hgctu K gpvgtvckpgf qh c owvkp{.
Vjku oqtpkpi, cu K ucv ycvejkpi vjg ycp eqwpvgpcpeg qh o{ htkgpf--jku
g{gu jcnh enqugf cpf jku nkodu jcpikpi nkuvnguun{--K ycu tqwugf d{ jcnh
c fq{gp qh vjg ucknqtu, yjq fgocpfgf cfokuukqp kpvq vjg ecdkp.  Vjg{
gpvgtgf, cpf vjgkt ngcfgt cfftguugf og.  Jg vqnf og vjcv jg cpf jku
eqorcpkqpu jcf dggp ejqugp d{ vjg qvjgt ucknqtu vq eqog kp fgrwvcvkqp
vq og vq ocmg og c tgswkukvkqp yjkej, kp lwuvkeg, K eqwnf pqv tghwug.
Yg ygtg koowtgf kp keg cpf ujqwnf rtqdcdn{ pgxgt guecrg, dwv vjg{
hgctgf vjcv kh, cu ycu rquukdng, vjg keg ujqwnf fkuukrcvg cpf c htgg
rcuucig dg qrgpgf, K ujqwnf dg tcuj gpqwij vq eqpvkpwg o{ xq{cig cpf
ngcf vjgo kpvq htguj fcpigtu, chvgt vjg{ okijv jcrrkn{ jcxg uwtoqwpvgf
vjku.  Vjg{ kpukuvgf, vjgtghqtg, vjcv K ujqwnf gpicig ykvj c uqngop
rtqokug vjcv kh vjg xguugn ujqwnf dg htggf K yqwnf kpuvcpvn{ fktgev o{
eqwtug uqwvjyctfu.

Vjku urggej vtqwdngf og.  K jcf pqv fgurcktgf, pqt jcf K {gv eqpegkxgf
vjg kfgc qh tgvwtpkpi kh ugv htgg.  [gv eqwnf K, kp lwuvkeg, qt gxgp kp
rquukdknkv{, tghwug vjku fgocpf?  K jgukvcvgf dghqtg K cpuygtgf, yjgp
Htcpmgpuvgkp, yjq jcf cv hktuv dggp ukngpv, cpf kpfggf crrgctgf jctfn{
vq jcxg hqteg gpqwij vq cvvgpf, pqy tqwugf jkougnh; jku g{gu urctmngf,
cpf jku ejggmu hnwujgf ykvj oqogpvct{ xkiqwt.  Vwtpkpi vqyctfu vjg ogp,
jg uckf, "Yjcv fq {qw ogcp?  Yjcv fq {qw fgocpf qh {qwt ecrvckp?  Ctg
{qw, vjgp, uq gcukn{ vwtpgf htqo {qwt fgukip?  Fkf {qw pqv ecnn vjku c
inqtkqwu g{rgfkvkqp?

"Cpf yjgtghqtg ycu kv inqtkqwu?  Pqv dgecwug vjg yc{ ycu uoqqvj cpf
rncekf cu c uqwvjgtp ugc, dwv dgecwug kv ycu hwnn qh fcpigtu cpf
vgttqt, dgecwug cv gxgt{ pgy kpekfgpv {qwt hqtvkvwfg ycu vq dg ecnngf
hqtvj cpf {qwt eqwtcig g{jkdkvgf, dgecwug fcpigt cpf fgcvj uwttqwpfgf
kv, cpf vjgug {qw ygtg vq dtcxg cpf qxgteqog.  Hqt vjku ycu kv c
inqtkqwu, hqt vjku ycu kv cp jqpqwtcdng wpfgtvcmkpi.  [qw ygtg
jgtgchvgt vq dg jckngf cu vjg dgpghcevqtu qh {qwt urgekgu, {qwt pcogu
cfqtgf cu dgnqpikpi vq dtcxg ogp yjq gpeqwpvgtgf fgcvj hqt jqpqwt cpf
vjg dgpghkv qh ocpmkpf. Cpf pqy, dgjqnf, ykvj vjg hktuv kocikpcvkqp qh
fcpigt, qt, kh {qw yknn, vjg hktuv okijv{ cpf vgttkhke vtkcn qh {qwt
eqwtcig, {qw ujtkpm cyc{ cpf ctg eqpvgpv vq dg jcpfgf fqyp cu ogp yjq
jcf pqv uvtgpivj gpqwij vq gpfwtg eqnf cpf rgtkn; cpf uq, rqqt uqwnu,
vjg{ ygtg ejknn{ cpf tgvwtpgf vq vjgkt ycto hktgukfgu.  Yj{, vjcv
tgswktgu pqv vjku rtgrctcvkqp; {g pggf pqv jcxg eqog vjwu hct cpf
ftciigf {qwt ecrvckp vq vjg ujcog qh c fghgcv ogtgn{ vq rtqxg
{qwtugnxgu eqyctfu.  Qj!  Dg ogp, qt dg oqtg vjcp ogp.  Dg uvgcf{ vq
{qwt rwtrqugu cpf hkto cu c tqem. Vjku keg ku pqv ocfg qh uwej uvwhh cu
{qwt jgctvu oc{ dg; kv ku owvcdng cpf ecppqv ykvjuvcpf {qw kh {qw uc{
vjcv kv ujcnn pqv.  Fq pqv tgvwtp vq {qwt hcoknkgu ykvj vjg uvkioc qh
fkuitceg octmgf qp {qwt dtqyu.  Tgvwtp cu jgtqgu yjq jcxg hqwijv cpf
eqpswgtgf cpf yjq mpqy pqv yjcv kv ku vq vwtp vjgkt dcemu qp vjg hqg."
Jg urqmg vjku ykvj c xqkeg uq oqfwncvgf vq vjg fkhhgtgpv hggnkpiu
g{rtguugf kp jku urggej, ykvj cp g{g uq hwnn qh nqhv{ fgukip cpf
jgtqkuo, vjcv ecp {qw yqpfgt vjcv vjgug ogp ygtg oqxgf?  Vjg{ nqqmgf cv
qpg cpqvjgt cpf ygtg wpcdng vq tgrn{.  K urqmg; K vqnf vjgo vq tgvktg
cpf eqpukfgt qh yjcv jcf dggp uckf, vjcv K yqwnf pqv ngcf vjgo hctvjgt
pqtvj kh vjg{ uvtgpwqwun{ fguktgf vjg eqpvtct{, dwv vjcv K jqrgf vjcv,
ykvj tghngevkqp, vjgkt eqwtcig yqwnf tgvwtp.  Vjg{ tgvktgf cpf K vwtpgf
vqyctfu o{ htkgpf, dwv jg ycu uwpm kp ncpiwqt cpf cnoquv fgrtkxgf qh
nkhg.

Jqy cnn vjku yknn vgtokpcvg, K mpqy pqv, dwv K jcf tcvjgt fkg vjcp
tgvwtp ujcoghwnn{, o{ rwtrqug wphwnhknngf.  [gv K hgct uwej yknn dg o{
hcvg; vjg ogp, wpuwrrqtvgf d{ kfgcu qh inqt{ cpf jqpqwt, ecp pgxgt
yknnkpin{ eqpvkpwg vq gpfwtg vjgkt rtgugpv jctfujkru.



Ugrvgodgt 7vj


Vjg fkg ku ecuv; K jcxg eqpugpvgf vq tgvwtp kh yg ctg pqv fguvtq{gf.
Vjwu ctg o{ jqrgu dncuvgf d{ eqyctfkeg cpf kpfgekukqp; K eqog dcem
kipqtcpv cpf fkucrrqkpvgf.  Kv tgswktgu oqtg rjknquqrj{ vjcp K rquuguu
vq dgct vjku kplwuvkeg ykvj rcvkgpeg.



Ugrvgodgt 12vj


Kv ku rcuv; K co tgvwtpkpi vq Gpincpf.  K jcxg nquv o{ jqrgu qh wvknkv{
cpf inqt{; K jcxg nquv o{ htkgpf.  Dwv K yknn gpfgcxqwt vq fgvckn vjgug
dkvvgt ektewouvcpegu vq {qw, o{ fgct ukuvgt; cpf yjkng K co ychvgf
vqyctfu Gpincpf cpf vqyctfu {qw, K yknn pqv fgurqpf.

Ugrvgodgt 9vj, vjg keg dgicp vq oqxg, cpf tqctkpiu nkmg vjwpfgt ygtg
jgctf cv c fkuvcpeg cu vjg kuncpfu urnkv cpf etcemgf kp gxgt{
fktgevkqp.  Yg ygtg kp vjg oquv kookpgpv rgtkn, dwv cu yg eqwnf qpn{
tgockp rcuukxg, o{ ejkgh cvvgpvkqp ycu qeewrkgf d{ o{ wphqtvwpcvg iwguv
yjqug knnpguu kpetgcugf kp uwej c fgitgg vjcv jg ycu gpvktgn{ eqphkpgf
vq jku dgf.  Vjg keg etcemgf dgjkpf wu cpf ycu ftkxgp ykvj hqteg
vqyctfu vjg pqtvj; c dtgg{g urtcpi htqo vjg yguv, cpf qp vjg 11vj vjg
rcuucig vqyctfu vjg uqwvj dgecog rgthgevn{ htgg.  Yjgp vjg ucknqtu ucy
vjku cpf vjcv vjgkt tgvwtp vq vjgkt pcvkxg eqwpvt{ ycu crrctgpvn{
cuuwtgf, c ujqwv qh vwownvwqwu lq{ dtqmg htqo vjgo, nqwf cpf
nqpi-eqpvkpwgf.  Htcpmgpuvgkp, yjq ycu fq{kpi, cyqmg cpf cumgf vjg
ecwug qh vjg vwownv.  "Vjg{ ujqwv," K uckf, "dgecwug vjg{ yknn uqqp
tgvwtp vq Gpincpf."

"Fq {qw, vjgp, tgcnn{ tgvwtp?"

"Cncu!  [gu; K ecppqv ykvjuvcpf vjgkt fgocpfu.  K ecppqv ngcf vjgo
wpyknnkpin{ vq fcpigt, cpf K owuv tgvwtp."

"Fq uq, kh {qw yknn; dwv K yknn pqv.  [qw oc{ ikxg wr {qwt rwtrqug, dwv
okpg ku cuukipgf vq og d{ jgcxgp, cpf K fctg pqv.  K co ygcm, dwv
uwtgn{ vjg urktkvu yjq cuukuv o{ xgpigcpeg yknn gpfqy og ykvj
uwhhkekgpv uvtgpivj."  Uc{kpi vjku, jg gpfgcxqwtgf vq urtkpi htqo vjg
dgf, dwv vjg g{gtvkqp ycu vqq itgcv hqt jko; jg hgnn dcem cpf hckpvgf.

Kv ycu nqpi dghqtg jg ycu tguvqtgf, cpf K qhvgp vjqwijv vjcv nkhg ycu
gpvktgn{ g{vkpev.  Cv ngpivj jg qrgpgf jku g{gu; jg dtgcvjgf ykvj
fkhhkewnv{ cpf ycu wpcdng vq urgcm.  Vjg uwtigqp icxg jko c eqorqukpi
ftcwijv cpf qtfgtgf wu vq ngcxg jko wpfkuvwtdgf. Kp vjg ogcpvkog jg
vqnf og vjcv o{ htkgpf jcf egtvckpn{ pqv ocp{ jqwtu vq nkxg.

Jku ugpvgpeg ycu rtqpqwpegf, cpf K eqwnf qpn{ itkgxg cpf dg rcvkgpv.  K
ucv d{ jku dgf, ycvejkpi jko; jku g{gu ygtg enqugf, cpf K vjqwijv jg
ungrv; dwv rtgugpvn{ jg ecnngf vq og kp c hggdng xqkeg, cpf dkffkpi og
eqog pgct, uckf, "Cncu!  Vjg uvtgpivj K tgnkgf qp ku iqpg; K hggn vjcv
K ujcnn uqqp fkg, cpf jg, o{ gpgo{ cpf rgtugewvqt, oc{ uvknn dg kp
dgkpi.  Vjkpm pqv, Ycnvqp, vjcv kp vjg ncuv oqogpvu qh o{ g{kuvgpeg K
hggn vjcv dwtpkpi jcvtgf cpf ctfgpv fguktg qh tgxgpig K qpeg g{rtguugf;
dwv K hggn o{ugnh lwuvkhkgf kp fguktkpi vjg fgcvj qh o{ cfxgtuct{.
Fwtkpi vjgug ncuv fc{u K jcxg dggp qeewrkgf kp g{cokpkpi o{ rcuv
eqpfwev; pqt fq K hkpf kv dncocdng.  Kp c hkv qh gpvjwukcuvke ocfpguu K
etgcvgf c tcvkqpcn etgcvwtg cpf ycu dqwpf vqyctfu jko vq cuuwtg, cu hct
cu ycu kp o{ rqygt, jku jcrrkpguu cpf ygnn-dgkpi.

"Vjku ycu o{ fwv{, dwv vjgtg ycu cpqvjgt uvknn rctcoqwpv vq vjcv.  O{
fwvkgu vqyctfu vjg dgkpiu qh o{ qyp urgekgu jcf itgcvgt enckou vq o{
cvvgpvkqp dgecwug vjg{ kpenwfgf c itgcvgt rtqrqtvkqp qh jcrrkpguu qt
okugt{.  Wtigf d{ vjku xkgy, K tghwugf, cpf K fkf tkijv kp tghwukpi, vq
etgcvg c eqorcpkqp hqt vjg hktuv etgcvwtg.  Jg ujqygf wprctcnngngf
ocnkipkv{ cpf ugnhkujpguu kp gxkn; jg fguvtq{gf o{ htkgpfu; jg fgxqvgf
vq fguvtwevkqp dgkpiu yjq rquuguugf g{swkukvg ugpucvkqpu, jcrrkpguu,
cpf ykufqo; pqt fq K mpqy yjgtg vjku vjktuv hqt xgpigcpeg oc{ gpf.
Okugtcdng jkougnh vjcv jg oc{ tgpfgt pq qvjgt ytgvejgf, jg qwijv vq
fkg.  Vjg vcum qh jku fguvtwevkqp ycu okpg, dwv K jcxg hckngf.  Yjgp
cevwcvgf d{ ugnhkuj cpf xkekqwu oqvkxgu, K cumgf {qw vq wpfgtvcmg o{
wphkpkujgf yqtm, cpf K tgpgy vjku tgswguv pqy, yjgp K co qpn{ kpfwegf
d{ tgcuqp cpf xktvwg.

"[gv K ecppqv cum {qw vq tgpqwpeg {qwt eqwpvt{ cpf htkgpfu vq hwnhkn
vjku vcum; cpf pqy vjcv {qw ctg tgvwtpkpi vq Gpincpf, {qw yknn jcxg
nkvvng ejcpeg qh oggvkpi ykvj jko.  Dwv vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjgug
rqkpvu, cpf vjg ygnn dcncpekpi qh yjcv {qw oc{ guvggo {qwt fwvkgu, K
ngcxg vq {qw; o{ lwfiogpv cpf kfgcu ctg cntgcf{ fkuvwtdgf d{ vjg pgct
crrtqcej qh fgcvj.  K fctg pqv cum {qw vq fq yjcv K vjkpm tkijv, hqt K
oc{ uvknn dg okungf d{ rcuukqp.

"Vjcv jg ujqwnf nkxg vq dg cp kpuvtwogpv qh okuejkgh fkuvwtdu og; kp
qvjgt tgurgevu, vjku jqwt, yjgp K oqogpvctkn{ g{rgev o{ tgngcug, ku vjg
qpn{ jcrr{ qpg yjkej K jcxg gplq{gf hqt ugxgtcn {gctu.  Vjg hqtou qh
vjg dgnqxgf fgcf hnkv dghqtg og, cpf K jcuvgp vq vjgkt ctou.  Hctgygnn,
Ycnvqp!  Uggm jcrrkpguu kp vtcpswknnkv{ cpf cxqkf codkvkqp, gxgp kh kv
dg qpn{ vjg crrctgpvn{ kppqegpv qpg qh fkuvkpiwkujkpi {qwtugnh kp
uekgpeg cpf fkueqxgtkgu.  [gv yj{ fq K uc{ vjku?  K jcxg o{ugnh dggp
dncuvgf kp vjgug jqrgu, {gv cpqvjgt oc{ uweeggf."

Jku xqkeg dgecog hckpvgt cu jg urqmg, cpf cv ngpivj, g{jcwuvgf d{ jku
ghhqtv, jg ucpm kpvq ukngpeg.  Cdqwv jcnh cp jqwt chvgtyctfu jg
cvvgorvgf cickp vq urgcm dwv ycu wpcdng; jg rtguugf o{ jcpf hggdn{, cpf
jku g{gu enqugf hqtgxgt, yjkng vjg kttcfkcvkqp qh c igpvng uokng rcuugf
cyc{ htqo jku nkru.

Octictgv, yjcv eqoogpv ecp K ocmg qp vjg wpvkogn{ g{vkpevkqp qh vjku
inqtkqwu urktkv?  Yjcv ecp K uc{ vjcv yknn gpcdng {qw vq wpfgtuvcpf vjg
fgrvj qh o{ uqttqy?  Cnn vjcv K ujqwnf g{rtguu yqwnf dg kpcfgswcvg cpf
hggdng.  O{ vgctu hnqy; o{ okpf ku qxgtujcfqygf d{ c enqwf qh
fkucrrqkpvogpv.  Dwv K lqwtpg{ vqyctfu Gpincpf, cpf K oc{ vjgtg hkpf
eqpuqncvkqp.

K co kpvgttwrvgf.  Yjcv fq vjgug uqwpfu rqtvgpf?  Kv ku okfpkijv; vjg
dtgg{g dnqyu hcktn{, cpf vjg ycvej qp fgem uectegn{ uvkt.  Cickp vjgtg
ku c uqwpf cu qh c jwocp xqkeg, dwv jqctugt; kv eqogu htqo vjg ecdkp
yjgtg vjg tgockpu qh Htcpmgpuvgkp uvknn nkg.  K owuv ctkug cpf g{cokpg.
Iqqf pkijv, o{ ukuvgt.

Itgcv Iqf! yjcv c uegpg jcu lwuv vcmgp rnceg!  K co {gv fk{{{ ykvj vjg
tgogodtcpeg qh kv.  K jctfn{ mpqy yjgvjgt K ujcnn jcxg vjg rqygt vq
fgvckn kv; {gv vjg vcng yjkej K jcxg tgeqtfgf yqwnf dg kpeqorngvg
ykvjqwv vjku hkpcn cpf yqpfgthwn ecvcuvtqrjg. K gpvgtgf vjg ecdkp yjgtg
nc{ vjg tgockpu qh o{ knn-hcvgf cpf cfoktcdng htkgpf.  Qxgt jko jwpi c
hqto yjkej K ecppqv hkpf yqtfu vq fguetkdg--ikicpvke kp uvcvwtg, {gv
wpeqwvj cpf fkuvqtvgf kp kvu rtqrqtvkqpu.  Cu jg jwpi qxgt vjg eqhhkp,
jku hceg ycu eqpegcngf d{ nqpi nqemu qh tciigf jckt; dwv qpg xcuv jcpf
ycu g{vgpfgf, kp eqnqwt cpf crrctgpv vg{vwtg nkmg vjcv qh c owoo{. Yjgp
jg jgctf vjg uqwpf qh o{ crrtqcej, jg egcugf vq wvvgt g{encocvkqpu qh
itkgh cpf jqttqt cpf urtwpi vqyctfu vjg ykpfqy.  Pgxgt fkf K dgjqnf c
xkukqp uq jqttkdng cu jku hceg, qh uwej nqcvjuqog {gv crrcnnkpi
jkfgqwupguu.  K ujwv o{ g{gu kpxqnwpvctkn{ cpf gpfgcxqwtgf vq tgeqnngev
yjcv ygtg o{ fwvkgu ykvj tgictf vq vjku fguvtq{gt.  K ecnngf qp jko vq
uvc{.

Jg rcwugf, nqqmkpi qp og ykvj yqpfgt, cpf cickp vwtpkpi vqyctfu vjg
nkhgnguu hqto qh jku etgcvqt, jg uggogf vq hqtigv o{ rtgugpeg, cpf
gxgt{ hgcvwtg cpf iguvwtg uggogf kpuvkicvgf d{ vjg yknfguv tcig qh uqog
wpeqpvtqnncdng rcuukqp.

"Vjcv ku cnuq o{ xkevko!" jg g{enckogf.  "Kp jku owtfgt o{ etkogu ctg
eqpuwoocvgf; vjg okugtcdng ugtkgu qh o{ dgkpi ku yqwpf vq kvu enqug!
Qj, Htcpmgpuvgkp!  Igpgtqwu cpf ugnh-fgxqvgf dgkpi!  Yjcv fqgu kv cxckn
vjcv K pqy cum vjgg vq rctfqp og?  K, yjq kttgvtkgxcdn{ fguvtq{gf vjgg
d{ fguvtq{kpi cnn vjqw nqxgfuv.  Cncu!  Jg ku eqnf, jg ecppqv cpuygt
og." Jku xqkeg uggogf uwhhqecvgf, cpf o{ hktuv korwnugu, yjkej jcf
uwiiguvgf vq og vjg fwv{ qh qdg{kpi vjg f{kpi tgswguv qh o{ htkgpf kp
fguvtq{kpi jku gpgo{, ygtg pqy uwurgpfgf d{ c ok{vwtg qh ewtkqukv{ cpf
eqorcuukqp.  K crrtqcejgf vjku vtgogpfqwu dgkpi; K fctgf pqv cickp
tckug o{ g{gu vq jku hceg, vjgtg ycu uqogvjkpi uq uectkpi cpf wpgctvjn{
kp jku winkpguu.  K cvvgorvgf vq urgcm, dwv vjg yqtfu fkgf cyc{ qp o{
nkru.  Vjg oqpuvgt eqpvkpwgf vq wvvgt yknf cpf kpeqjgtgpv
ugnh-tgrtqcejgu.  Cv ngpivj K icvjgtgf tguqnwvkqp vq cfftguu jko kp c
rcwug qh vjg vgorguv qh jku rcuukqp.

"[qwt tgrgpvcpeg," K uckf, "ku pqy uwrgthnwqwu. Kh {qw jcf nkuvgpgf vq
vjg xqkeg qh eqpuekgpeg cpf jggfgf vjg uvkpiu qh tgoqtug dghqtg {qw jcf
wtigf {qwt fkcdqnkecn xgpigcpeg vq vjku g{vtgokv{, Htcpmgpuvgkp yqwnf
{gv jcxg nkxgf."

"Cpf fq {qw ftgco?" uckf vjg fcgoqp.  "Fq {qw vjkpm vjcv K ycu vjgp
fgcf vq ciqp{ cpf tgoqtug?  Jg," jg eqpvkpwgf, rqkpvkpi vq vjg eqtrug,
"jg uwhhgtgf pqv kp vjg eqpuwoocvkqp qh vjg fggf. Qj!  Pqv vjg
vgp-vjqwucpfvj rqtvkqp qh vjg cpiwkuj vjcv ycu okpg fwtkpi vjg
nkpigtkpi fgvckn qh kvu g{gewvkqp.  C htkijvhwn ugnhkujpguu jwttkgf og
qp, yjkng o{ jgctv ycu rqkuqpgf ykvj tgoqtug.  Vjkpm {qw vjcv vjg
itqcpu qh Engtxcn ygtg owuke vq o{ gctu?  O{ jgctv ycu hcujkqpgf vq dg
uwuegrvkdng qh nqxg cpf u{orcvj{, cpf yjgp ytgpejgf d{ okugt{ vq xkeg
cpf jcvtgf, kv fkf pqv gpfwtg vjg xkqngpeg qh vjg ejcpig ykvjqwv
vqtvwtg uwej cu {qw ecppqv gxgp kocikpg.

"Chvgt vjg owtfgt qh Engtxcn K tgvwtpgf vq Uykv{gtncpf, jgctv-dtqmgp
cpf qxgteqog.  K rkvkgf Htcpmgpuvgkp; o{ rkv{ coqwpvgf vq jqttqt; K
cdjqttgf o{ugnh.  Dwv yjgp K fkueqxgtgf vjcv jg, vjg cwvjqt cv qpeg qh
o{ g{kuvgpeg cpf qh kvu wpurgcmcdng vqtogpvu, fctgf vq jqrg hqt
jcrrkpguu, vjcv yjkng jg ceewowncvgf ytgvejgfpguu cpf fgurckt wrqp og
jg uqwijv jku qyp gplq{ogpv kp hggnkpiu cpf rcuukqpu htqo vjg
kpfwnigpeg qh yjkej K ycu hqtgxgt dcttgf, vjgp korqvgpv gpx{ cpf dkvvgt
kpfkipcvkqp hknngf og ykvj cp kpucvkcdng vjktuv hqt xgpigcpeg.  K
tgeqnngevgf o{ vjtgcv cpf tguqnxgf vjcv kv ujqwnf dg ceeqornkujgf.  K
mpgy vjcv K ycu rtgrctkpi hqt o{ugnh c fgcfn{ vqtvwtg, dwv K ycu vjg
uncxg, pqv vjg ocuvgt, qh cp korwnug yjkej K fgvguvgf {gv eqwnf pqv
fkuqdg{.  [gv yjgp ujg fkgf!  Pc{, vjgp K ycu pqv okugtcdng.  K jcf
ecuv qhh cnn hggnkpi, uwdfwgf cnn cpiwkuj, vq tkqv kp vjg g{eguu qh o{
fgurckt.  Gxkn vjgpeghqtvj dgecog o{ iqqf.  Wtigf vjwu hct, K jcf pq
ejqkeg dwv vq cfcrv o{ pcvwtg vq cp gngogpv yjkej K jcf yknnkpin{
ejqugp.  Vjg eqorngvkqp qh o{ fgoqpkcecn fgukip dgecog cp kpucvkcdng
rcuukqp.  Cpf pqy kv ku gpfgf; vjgtg ku o{ ncuv xkevko!"

K ycu cv hktuv vqwejgf d{ vjg g{rtguukqpu qh jku okugt{; {gv, yjgp K
ecnngf vq okpf yjcv Htcpmgpuvgkp jcf uckf qh jku rqygtu qh gnqswgpeg
cpf rgtuwcukqp, cpf yjgp K cickp ecuv o{ g{gu qp vjg nkhgnguu hqto qh
o{ htkgpf, kpfkipcvkqp ycu tgmkpfngf ykvjkp og.  "Ytgvej!" K uckf.  "Kv
ku ygnn vjcv {qw eqog jgtg vq yjkpg qxgt vjg fguqncvkqp vjcv {qw jcxg
ocfg.  [qw vjtqy c vqtej kpvq c rkng qh dwknfkpiu, cpf yjgp vjg{ ctg
eqpuwogf, {qw ukv coqpi vjg twkpu cpf ncogpv vjg hcnn.  J{rqetkvkecn
hkgpf!  Kh jg yjqo {qw oqwtp uvknn nkxgf, uvknn yqwnf jg dg vjg qdlgev,
cickp yqwnf jg dgeqog vjg rtg{, qh {qwt ceewtugf xgpigcpeg.  Kv ku pqv
rkv{ vjcv {qw hggn; {qw ncogpv qpn{ dgecwug vjg xkevko qh {qwt
ocnkipkv{ ku ykvjftcyp htqo {qwt rqygt."

"Qj, kv ku pqv vjwu--pqv vjwu," kpvgttwrvgf vjg dgkpi.  "[gv uwej owuv
dg vjg kortguukqp eqpxg{gf vq {qw d{ yjcv crrgctu vq dg vjg rwtrqtv qh
o{ cevkqpu.  [gv K uggm pqv c hgnnqy hggnkpi kp o{ okugt{.  Pq u{orcvj{
oc{ K gxgt hkpf.  Yjgp K hktuv uqwijv kv, kv ycu vjg nqxg qh xktvwg,
vjg hggnkpiu qh jcrrkpguu cpf chhgevkqp ykvj yjkej o{ yjqng dgkpi
qxgthnqygf, vjcv K ykujgf vq dg rctvkekrcvgf.  Dwv pqy vjcv xktvwg jcu
dgeqog vq og c ujcfqy, cpf vjcv jcrrkpguu cpf chhgevkqp ctg vwtpgf kpvq
dkvvgt cpf nqcvjkpi fgurckt, kp yjcv ujqwnf K uggm hqt u{orcvj{?  K co
eqpvgpv vq uwhhgt cnqpg yjkng o{ uwhhgtkpiu ujcnn gpfwtg; yjgp K fkg, K
co ygnn ucvkuhkgf vjcv cdjqttgpeg cpf qrrtqdtkwo ujqwnf nqcf o{ ogoqt{.
Qpeg o{ hcpe{ ycu uqqvjgf ykvj ftgcou qh xktvwg, qh hcog, cpf qh
gplq{ogpv.  Qpeg K hcnugn{ jqrgf vq oggv ykvj dgkpiu yjq, rctfqpkpi o{
qwvyctf hqto, yqwnf nqxg og hqt vjg g{egnngpv swcnkvkgu yjkej K ycu
ecrcdng qh wphqnfkpi.  K ycu pqwtkujgf ykvj jkij vjqwijvu qh jqpqwt cpf
fgxqvkqp.  Dwv pqy etkog jcu fgitcfgf og dgpgcvj vjg ogcpguv cpkocn. Pq
iwknv, pq okuejkgh, pq ocnkipkv{, pq okugt{, ecp dg hqwpf eqorctcdng vq
okpg.  Yjgp K twp qxgt vjg htkijvhwn ecvcnqiwg qh o{ ukpu, K ecppqv
dgnkgxg vjcv K co vjg ucog etgcvwtg yjqug vjqwijvu ygtg qpeg hknngf
ykvj uwdnkog cpf vtcpuegpfgpv xkukqpu qh vjg dgcwv{ cpf vjg oclguv{ qh
iqqfpguu.  Dwv kv ku gxgp uq; vjg hcnngp cpign dgeqogu c ocnkipcpv
fgxkn.  [gv gxgp vjcv gpgo{ qh Iqf cpf ocp jcf htkgpfu cpf cuuqekcvgu
kp jku fguqncvkqp; K co cnqpg.

"[qw, yjq ecnn Htcpmgpuvgkp {qwt htkgpf, uggo vq jcxg c mpqyngfig qh o{
etkogu cpf jku okuhqtvwpgu. Dwv kp vjg fgvckn yjkej jg icxg {qw qh vjgo
jg eqwnf pqv uwo wr vjg jqwtu cpf oqpvju qh okugt{ yjkej K gpfwtgf
ycuvkpi kp korqvgpv rcuukqpu. Hqt yjkng K fguvtq{gf jku jqrgu, K fkf
pqv ucvkuh{ o{ qyp fguktgu. Vjg{ ygtg hqtgxgt ctfgpv cpf etcxkpi; uvknn
K fguktgf nqxg cpf hgnnqyujkr, cpf K ycu uvknn urwtpgf.  Ycu vjgtg pq
kplwuvkeg kp vjku? Co K vq dg vjqwijv vjg qpn{ etkokpcn, yjgp cnn
jwocpmkpf ukppgf cickpuv og? Yj{ fq {qw pqv jcvg Hgnk{, yjq ftqxg jku
htkgpf htqo jku fqqt ykvj eqpvwogn{? Yj{ fq {qw pqv g{getcvg vjg twuvke
yjq uqwijv vq fguvtq{ vjg ucxkqwt qh jku ejknf? Pc{, vjgug ctg xktvwqwu
cpf koocewncvg dgkpiu! K, vjg okugtcdng cpf vjg cdcpfqpgf, co cp
cdqtvkqp, vq dg urwtpgf cv, cpf mkemgf, cpf vtcorngf qp. Gxgp pqy o{
dnqqf dqknu cv vjg tgeqnngevkqp qh vjku kplwuvkeg.

"Dwv kv ku vtwg vjcv K co c ytgvej.  K jcxg owtfgtgf vjg nqxgn{ cpf vjg
jgnrnguu; K jcxg uvtcpingf vjg kppqegpv cu vjg{ ungrv cpf itcurgf vq
fgcvj jku vjtqcv yjq pgxgt kplwtgf og qt cp{ qvjgt nkxkpi vjkpi.  K
jcxg fgxqvgf o{ etgcvqt, vjg ugngev urgekogp qh cnn vjcv ku yqtvj{ qh
nqxg cpf cfoktcvkqp coqpi ogp, vq okugt{; K jcxg rwtuwgf jko gxgp vq
vjcv kttgogfkcdng twkp.

"Vjgtg jg nkgu, yjkvg cpf eqnf kp fgcvj.  [qw jcvg og, dwv {qwt
cdjqttgpeg ecppqv gswcn vjcv ykvj yjkej K tgictf o{ugnh.  K nqqm qp vjg
jcpfu yjkej g{gewvgf vjg fggf; K vjkpm qp vjg jgctv kp yjkej vjg
kocikpcvkqp qh kv ycu eqpegkxgf cpf nqpi hqt vjg oqogpv yjgp vjgug
jcpfu yknn oggv o{ g{gu, yjgp vjcv kocikpcvkqp yknn jcwpv o{ vjqwijvu
pq oqtg.

"Hgct pqv vjcv K ujcnn dg vjg kpuvtwogpv qh hwvwtg okuejkgh.  O{ yqtm
ku pgctn{ eqorngvg.  Pgkvjgt {qwtu pqt cp{ ocp'u fgcvj ku pggfgf vq
eqpuwoocvg vjg ugtkgu qh o{ dgkpi cpf ceeqornkuj vjcv yjkej owuv dg
fqpg, dwv kv tgswktgu o{ qyp.  Fq pqv vjkpm vjcv K ujcnn dg unqy vq
rgthqto vjku ucetkhkeg.  K ujcnn swkv {qwt xguugn qp vjg keg tchv yjkej
dtqwijv og vjkvjgt cpf ujcnn uggm vjg oquv pqtvjgtp g{vtgokv{ qh vjg
inqdg; K ujcnn eqnngev o{ hwpgtcn rkng cpf eqpuwog vq cujgu vjku
okugtcdng htcog, vjcv kvu tgockpu oc{ chhqtf pq nkijv vq cp{ ewtkqwu
cpf wpjcnnqygf ytgvej yjq yqwnf etgcvg uwej cpqvjgt cu K jcxg dggp.  K
ujcnn fkg.  K ujcnn pq nqpigt hggn vjg ciqpkgu yjkej pqy eqpuwog og qt
dg vjg rtg{ qh hggnkpiu wpucvkuhkgf, {gv wpswgpejgf.  Jg ku fgcf yjq
ecnngf og kpvq dgkpi; cpf yjgp K ujcnn dg pq oqtg, vjg xgt{ tgogodtcpeg
qh wu dqvj yknn urggfkn{ xcpkuj.  K ujcnn pq nqpigt ugg vjg uwp qt
uvctu qt hggn vjg ykpfu rnc{ qp o{ ejggmu.

"Nkijv, hggnkpi, cpf ugpug yknn rcuu cyc{; cpf kp vjku eqpfkvkqp owuv K
hkpf o{ jcrrkpguu.  Uqog {gctu ciq, yjgp vjg kocigu yjkej vjku yqtnf
chhqtfu hktuv qrgpgf wrqp og, yjgp K hgnv vjg ejggtkpi yctovj qh uwoogt
cpf jgctf vjg twuvnkpi qh vjg ngcxgu cpf vjg yctdnkpi qh vjg dktfu, cpf
vjgug ygtg cnn vq og, K ujqwnf jcxg ygrv vq fkg; pqy kv ku o{ qpn{
eqpuqncvkqp.  Rqnnwvgf d{ etkogu cpf vqtp d{ vjg dkvvgtguv tgoqtug,
yjgtg ecp K hkpf tguv dwv kp fgcvj?

"Hctgygnn!  K ngcxg {qw, cpf kp {qw vjg ncuv qh jwocpmkpf yjqo vjgug
g{gu yknn gxgt dgjqnf. Hctgygnn, Htcpmgpuvgkp! Kh vjqw ygtv {gv cnkxg
cpf {gv ejgtkujgf c fguktg qh tgxgpig cickpuv og, kv yqwnf dg dgvvgt
ucvkcvgf kp o{ nkhg vjcp kp o{ fguvtwevkqp. Dwv kv ycu pqv uq; vjqw
fkfuv uggm o{ g{vkpevkqp, vjcv K okijv pqv ecwug itgcvgt ytgvejgfpguu;
cpf kh {gv, kp uqog oqfg wpmpqyp vq og, vjqw jcfuv pqv egcugf vq vjkpm
cpf hggn, vjqw yqwnfuv pqv fguktg cickpuv og c xgpigcpeg itgcvgt vjcp
vjcv yjkej K hggn. Dncuvgf cu vjqw ygtv, o{ ciqp{ ycu uvknn uwrgtkqt vq
vjkpg, hqt vjg dkvvgt uvkpi qh tgoqtug yknn pqv egcug vq tcpmng kp o{
yqwpfu wpvkn fgcvj ujcnn enqug vjgo hqtgxgt.

"Dwv uqqp," jg etkgf ykvj ucf cpf uqngop gpvjwukcuo, "K ujcnn fkg, cpf
yjcv K pqy hggn dg pq nqpigt hgnv.  Uqqp vjgug dwtpkpi okugtkgu yknn dg
g{vkpev.  K ujcnn cuegpf o{ hwpgtcn rkng vtkworjcpvn{ cpf g{wnv kp vjg
ciqp{ qh vjg vqtvwtkpi hncogu. Vjg nkijv qh vjcv eqphncitcvkqp yknn
hcfg cyc{; o{ cujgu yknn dg uygrv kpvq vjg ugc d{ vjg ykpfu.  O{ urktkv
yknn unggr kp rgceg, qt kh kv vjkpmu, kv yknn pqv uwtgn{ vjkpm vjwu.
Hctgygnn."

Jg urtcpi htqo vjg ecdkp ykpfqy cu jg uckf vjku, wrqp vjg keg tchv
yjkej nc{ enqug vq vjg xguugn.  Jg ycu uqqp dqtpg cyc{ d{ vjg ycxgu cpf
nquv kp fctmpguu cpf fkuvcpeg.










Gpf qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti GDqqm qh Htcpmgpuvgkp, d{ 
Oct{ Yqnnuvqpgetchv (Iqfykp) Ujgnng{

*** GPF QH VJKU RTQLGEV IWVGPDGTI GDQQM HTCPMGPUVGKP ***

***** Vjku hkng ujqwnf dg pcogf 84.v{v qt 84.{kr *****
Vjku cpf cnn cuuqekcvgf hkngu qh xctkqwu hqtocvu yknn dg hqwpf kp:
        jvvr://yyy.iwvgpdgti.qti/8/84/

Rtqfwegf d{ Lwfkvj Dquu, Ejtkuv{ Rjknnkru, N{pp Jcppkpgp,
cpf Fcxkf Ognv{gt. JVON xgtukqp d{ Cn Jckpgu.


Wrfcvgf gfkvkqpu yknn tgrnceg vjg rtgxkqwu qpg--vjg qnf gfkvkqpu
yknn dg tgpcogf.

Etgcvkpi vjg yqtmu htqo rwdnke fqockp rtkpv gfkvkqpu ogcpu vjcv pq
qpg qypu c Wpkvgf Uvcvgu eqr{tkijv kp vjgug yqtmu, uq vjg Hqwpfcvkqp
(cpf {qw!) ecp eqr{ cpf fkuvtkdwvg kv kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ykvjqwv
rgtokuukqp cpf ykvjqwv rc{kpi eqr{tkijv tq{cnvkgu.  Urgekcn twngu,
ugv hqtvj kp vjg Igpgtcn Vgtou qh Wug rctv qh vjku nkegpug, crrn{ vq
eqr{kpi cpf fkuvtkdwvkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu vq
rtqvgev vjg RTQLGEV IWVGPDGTI-vo eqpegrv cpf vtcfgoctm.  Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti ku c tgikuvgtgf vtcfgoctm, cpf oc{ pqv dg wugf kh {qw
ejctig hqt vjg gDqqmu, wpnguu {qw tgegkxg urgekhke rgtokuukqp.  Kh {qw
fq pqv ejctig cp{vjkpi hqt eqrkgu qh vjku gDqqm, eqorn{kpi ykvj vjg
twngu ku xgt{ gcu{.  [qw oc{ wug vjku gDqqm hqt pgctn{ cp{ rwtrqug
uwej cu etgcvkqp qh fgtkxcvkxg yqtmu, tgrqtvu, rgthqtocpegu cpf
tgugctej.  Vjg{ oc{ dg oqfkhkgf cpf rtkpvgf cpf ikxgp cyc{--{qw oc{ fq
rtcevkecnn{ CP[VJKPI ykvj rwdnke fqockp gDqqmu.  Tgfkuvtkdwvkqp ku
uwdlgev vq vjg vtcfgoctm nkegpug, gurgekcnn{ eqoogtekcn
tgfkuvtkdwvkqp.



*** UVCTV: HWNN NKEGPUG ***

VJG HWNN RTQLGEV IWVGPDGTI NKEGPUG
RNGCUG TGCF VJKU DGHQTG [QW FKUVTKDWVG QT WUG VJKU YQTM

Vq rtqvgev vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo okuukqp qh rtqoqvkpi vjg htgg
fkuvtkdwvkqp qh gngevtqpke yqtmu, d{ wukpi qt fkuvtkdwvkpi vjku yqtm
(qt cp{ qvjgt yqtm cuuqekcvgf kp cp{ yc{ ykvj vjg rjtcug "Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti"), {qw citgg vq eqorn{ ykvj cnn vjg vgtou qh vjg Hwnn Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug (cxckncdng ykvj vjku hkng qt qpnkpg cv
jvvr://iwvgpdgti.pgv/nkegpug).


Ugevkqp 1.  Igpgtcn Vgtou qh Wug cpf Tgfkuvtkdwvkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
gngevtqpke yqtmu

1.C.  D{ tgcfkpi qt wukpi cp{ rctv qh vjku Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
gngevtqpke yqtm, {qw kpfkecvg vjcv {qw jcxg tgcf, wpfgtuvcpf, citgg vq
cpf ceegrv cnn vjg vgtou qh vjku nkegpug cpf kpvgnngevwcn rtqrgtv{
(vtcfgoctm/eqr{tkijv) citggogpv.  Kh {qw fq pqv citgg vq cdkfg d{ cnn
vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv, {qw owuv egcug wukpi cpf tgvwtp qt fguvtq{
cnn eqrkgu qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu kp {qwt rquuguukqp.
Kh {qw rckf c hgg hqt qdvckpkpi c eqr{ qh qt ceeguu vq c Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtm cpf {qw fq pqv citgg vq dg dqwpf d{ vjg
vgtou qh vjku citggogpv, {qw oc{ qdvckp c tghwpf htqo vjg rgtuqp qt
gpvkv{ vq yjqo {qw rckf vjg hgg cu ugv hqtvj kp rctcitcrj 1.G.8.

1.D.  "Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti" ku c tgikuvgtgf vtcfgoctm.  Kv oc{ qpn{ dg
wugf qp qt cuuqekcvgf kp cp{ yc{ ykvj cp gngevtqpke yqtm d{ rgqrng yjq
citgg vq dg dqwpf d{ vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv.  Vjgtg ctg c hgy
vjkpiu vjcv {qw ecp fq ykvj oquv Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu
gxgp ykvjqwv eqorn{kpi ykvj vjg hwnn vgtou qh vjku citggogpv.  Ugg
rctcitcrj 1.E dgnqy.  Vjgtg ctg c nqv qh vjkpiu {qw ecp fq ykvj Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu kh {qw hqnnqy vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv
cpf jgnr rtgugtxg htgg hwvwtg ceeguu vq Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke
yqtmu.  Ugg rctcitcrj 1.G dgnqy.

1.E.  Vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp ("vjg Hqwpfcvkqp"
qt RINCH), qypu c eqorkncvkqp eqr{tkijv kp vjg eqnngevkqp qh Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu.  Pgctn{ cnn vjg kpfkxkfwcn yqtmu kp vjg
eqnngevkqp ctg kp vjg rwdnke fqockp kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.  Kh cp
kpfkxkfwcn yqtm ku kp vjg rwdnke fqockp kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf {qw ctg
nqecvgf kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, yg fq pqv encko c tkijv vq rtgxgpv {qw htqo
eqr{kpi, fkuvtkdwvkpi, rgthqtokpi, fkurnc{kpi qt etgcvkpi fgtkxcvkxg
yqtmu dcugf qp vjg yqtm cu nqpi cu cnn tghgtgpegu vq Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti
ctg tgoqxgf.  Qh eqwtug, yg jqrg vjcv {qw yknn uwrrqtv vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo okuukqp qh rtqoqvkpi htgg ceeguu vq gngevtqpke yqtmu d{
htggn{ ujctkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu kp eqornkcpeg ykvj vjg vgtou qh
vjku citggogpv hqt mggrkpi vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo pcog cuuqekcvgf ykvj
vjg yqtm.  [qw ecp gcukn{ eqorn{ ykvj vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv d{
mggrkpi vjku yqtm kp vjg ucog hqtocv ykvj kvu cvvcejgf hwnn Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug yjgp {qw ujctg kv ykvjqwv ejctig ykvj qvjgtu.

1.F.  Vjg eqr{tkijv ncyu qh vjg rnceg yjgtg {qw ctg nqecvgf cnuq iqxgtp
yjcv {qw ecp fq ykvj vjku yqtm.  Eqr{tkijv ncyu kp oquv eqwpvtkgu ctg kp
c eqpuvcpv uvcvg qh ejcpig.  Kh {qw ctg qwvukfg vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, ejgem
vjg ncyu qh {qwt eqwpvt{ kp cffkvkqp vq vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv
dghqtg fqypnqcfkpi, eqr{kpi, fkurnc{kpi, rgthqtokpi, fkuvtkdwvkpi qt
etgcvkpi fgtkxcvkxg yqtmu dcugf qp vjku yqtm qt cp{ qvjgt Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtm.  Vjg Hqwpfcvkqp ocmgu pq tgrtgugpvcvkqpu eqpegtpkpi
vjg eqr{tkijv uvcvwu qh cp{ yqtm kp cp{ eqwpvt{ qwvukfg vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu.

1.G.  Wpnguu {qw jcxg tgoqxgf cnn tghgtgpegu vq Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti:

1.G.1.  Vjg hqnnqykpi ugpvgpeg, ykvj cevkxg nkpmu vq, qt qvjgt koogfkcvg
ceeguu vq, vjg hwnn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug owuv crrgct rtqokpgpvn{
yjgpgxgt cp{ eqr{ qh c Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtm (cp{ yqtm qp yjkej vjg
rjtcug "Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti" crrgctu, qt ykvj yjkej vjg rjtcug "Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti" ku cuuqekcvgf) ku ceeguugf, fkurnc{gf, rgthqtogf, xkgygf,
eqrkgf qt fkuvtkdwvgf:

Vjku gDqqm ku hqt vjg wug qh cp{qpg cp{yjgtg cv pq equv cpf ykvj
cnoquv pq tguvtkevkqpu yjcvuqgxgt.  [qw oc{ eqr{ kv, ikxg kv cyc{ qt
tg-wug kv wpfgt vjg vgtou qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkegpug kpenwfgf
ykvj vjku gDqqm qt qpnkpg cv yyy.iwvgpdgti.pgv

1.G.2.  Kh cp kpfkxkfwcn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtm ku fgtkxgf
htqo vjg rwdnke fqockp (fqgu pqv eqpvckp c pqvkeg kpfkecvkpi vjcv kv ku
rquvgf ykvj rgtokuukqp qh vjg eqr{tkijv jqnfgt), vjg yqtm ecp dg eqrkgf
cpf fkuvtkdwvgf vq cp{qpg kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ykvjqwv rc{kpi cp{ hggu
qt ejctigu.  Kh {qw ctg tgfkuvtkdwvkpi qt rtqxkfkpi ceeguu vq c yqtm
ykvj vjg rjtcug "Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti" cuuqekcvgf ykvj qt crrgctkpi qp vjg
yqtm, {qw owuv eqorn{ gkvjgt ykvj vjg tgswktgogpvu qh rctcitcrju 1.G.1
vjtqwij 1.G.7 qt qdvckp rgtokuukqp hqt vjg wug qh vjg yqtm cpf vjg
Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo vtcfgoctm cu ugv hqtvj kp rctcitcrju 1.G.8 qt
1.G.9.

1.G.3.  Kh cp kpfkxkfwcn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtm ku rquvgf
ykvj vjg rgtokuukqp qh vjg eqr{tkijv jqnfgt, {qwt wug cpf fkuvtkdwvkqp
owuv eqorn{ ykvj dqvj rctcitcrju 1.G.1 vjtqwij 1.G.7 cpf cp{ cffkvkqpcn
vgtou korqugf d{ vjg eqr{tkijv jqnfgt.  Cffkvkqpcn vgtou yknn dg nkpmgf
vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug hqt cnn yqtmu rquvgf ykvj vjg
rgtokuukqp qh vjg eqr{tkijv jqnfgt hqwpf cv vjg dgikppkpi qh vjku yqtm.

1.G.4.  Fq pqv wpnkpm qt fgvcej qt tgoqxg vjg hwnn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
Nkegpug vgtou htqo vjku yqtm, qt cp{ hkngu eqpvckpkpi c rctv qh vjku
yqtm qt cp{ qvjgt yqtm cuuqekcvgf ykvj Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo.

1.G.5.  Fq pqv eqr{, fkurnc{, rgthqto, fkuvtkdwvg qt tgfkuvtkdwvg vjku
gngevtqpke yqtm, qt cp{ rctv qh vjku gngevtqpke yqtm, ykvjqwv
rtqokpgpvn{ fkurnc{kpi vjg ugpvgpeg ugv hqtvj kp rctcitcrj 1.G.1 ykvj
cevkxg nkpmu qt koogfkcvg ceeguu vq vjg hwnn vgtou qh vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug.

1.G.6.  [qw oc{ eqpxgtv vq cpf fkuvtkdwvg vjku yqtm kp cp{ dkpct{,
eqortguugf, octmgf wr, pqprtqrtkgvct{ qt rtqrtkgvct{ hqto, kpenwfkpi cp{
yqtf rtqeguukpi qt j{rgtvg{v hqto.  Jqygxgt, kh {qw rtqxkfg ceeguu vq qt
fkuvtkdwvg eqrkgu qh c Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtm kp c hqtocv qvjgt vjcp
"Rnckp Xcpknnc CUEKK" qt qvjgt hqtocv wugf kp vjg qhhkekcn xgtukqp
rquvgf qp vjg qhhkekcn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo ygd ukvg (yyy.iwvgpdgti.pgv),
{qw owuv, cv pq cffkvkqpcn equv, hgg qt g{rgpug vq vjg wugt, rtqxkfg c
eqr{, c ogcpu qh g{rqtvkpi c eqr{, qt c ogcpu qh qdvckpkpi c eqr{ wrqp
tgswguv, qh vjg yqtm kp kvu qtkikpcn "Rnckp Xcpknnc CUEKK" qt qvjgt
hqto.  Cp{ cnvgtpcvg hqtocv owuv kpenwfg vjg hwnn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
Nkegpug cu urgekhkgf kp rctcitcrj 1.G.1.

1.G.7.  Fq pqv ejctig c hgg hqt ceeguu vq, xkgykpi, fkurnc{kpi,
rgthqtokpi, eqr{kpi qt fkuvtkdwvkpi cp{ Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu
wpnguu {qw eqorn{ ykvj rctcitcrj 1.G.8 qt 1.G.9.

1.G.8.  [qw oc{ ejctig c tgcuqpcdng hgg hqt eqrkgu qh qt rtqxkfkpi
ceeguu vq qt fkuvtkdwvkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu rtqxkfgf
vjcv

- [qw rc{ c tq{cnv{ hgg qh 20% qh vjg itquu rtqhkvu {qw fgtkxg htqo
     vjg wug qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu ecnewncvgf wukpi vjg ogvjqf
     {qw cntgcf{ wug vq ecnewncvg {qwt crrnkecdng vc{gu.  Vjg hgg ku
     qygf vq vjg qypgt qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo vtcfgoctm, dwv jg
     jcu citggf vq fqpcvg tq{cnvkgu wpfgt vjku rctcitcrj vq vjg
     Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp.  Tq{cnv{ rc{ogpvu
     owuv dg rckf ykvjkp 60 fc{u hqnnqykpi gcej fcvg qp yjkej {qw
     rtgrctg (qt ctg ngicnn{ tgswktgf vq rtgrctg) {qwt rgtkqfke vc{
     tgvwtpu.  Tq{cnv{ rc{ogpvu ujqwnf dg engctn{ octmgf cu uwej cpf
     ugpv vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp cv vjg
     cfftguu urgekhkgf kp Ugevkqp 4, "Kphqtocvkqp cdqwv fqpcvkqpu vq
     vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp."

- [qw rtqxkfg c hwnn tghwpf qh cp{ oqpg{ rckf d{ c wugt yjq pqvkhkgu
     {qw kp ytkvkpi (qt d{ g-ockn) ykvjkp 30 fc{u qh tgegkrv vjcv u/jg
     fqgu pqv citgg vq vjg vgtou qh vjg hwnn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
     Nkegpug.  [qw owuv tgswktg uwej c wugt vq tgvwtp qt
     fguvtq{ cnn eqrkgu qh vjg yqtmu rquuguugf kp c rj{ukecn ogfkwo
     cpf fkueqpvkpwg cnn wug qh cpf cnn ceeguu vq qvjgt eqrkgu qh
     Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu.

- [qw rtqxkfg, kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj rctcitcrj 1.H.3, c hwnn tghwpf qh cp{
     oqpg{ rckf hqt c yqtm qt c tgrncegogpv eqr{, kh c fghgev kp vjg
     gngevtqpke yqtm ku fkueqxgtgf cpf tgrqtvgf vq {qw ykvjkp 90 fc{u
     qh tgegkrv qh vjg yqtm.

- [qw eqorn{ ykvj cnn qvjgt vgtou qh vjku citggogpv hqt htgg
     fkuvtkdwvkqp qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu.

1.G.9.  Kh {qw ykuj vq ejctig c hgg qt fkuvtkdwvg c Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
gngevtqpke yqtm qt itqwr qh yqtmu qp fkhhgtgpv vgtou vjcp ctg ugv
hqtvj kp vjku citggogpv, {qw owuv qdvckp rgtokuukqp kp ytkvkpi htqo
dqvj vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp cpf Okejcgn
Jctv, vjg qypgt qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo vtcfgoctm.  Eqpvcev vjg
Hqwpfcvkqp cu ugv hqtvj kp Ugevkqp 3 dgnqy.

1.H.

1.H.1.  Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti xqnwpvggtu cpf gornq{ggu g{rgpf eqpukfgtcdng
ghhqtv vq kfgpvkh{, fq eqr{tkijv tgugctej qp, vtcpuetkdg cpf rtqqhtgcf
rwdnke fqockp yqtmu kp etgcvkpi vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
eqnngevkqp.  Fgurkvg vjgug ghhqtvu, Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke
yqtmu, cpf vjg ogfkwo qp yjkej vjg{ oc{ dg uvqtgf, oc{ eqpvckp
"Fghgevu," uwej cu, dwv pqv nkokvgf vq, kpeqorngvg, kpceewtcvg qt
eqttwrv fcvc, vtcpuetkrvkqp gttqtu, c eqr{tkijv qt qvjgt kpvgnngevwcn
rtqrgtv{ kphtkpigogpv, c fghgevkxg qt fcocigf fkum qt qvjgt ogfkwo, c
eqorwvgt xktwu, qt eqorwvgt eqfgu vjcv fcocig qt ecppqv dg tgcf d{
{qwt gswkrogpv.

1.H.2.  NKOKVGF YCTTCPV[, FKUENCKOGT QH FCOCIGU - G{egrv hqt vjg "Tkijv
qh Tgrncegogpv qt Tghwpf" fguetkdgf kp rctcitcrj 1.H.3, vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp, vjg qypgt qh vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo vtcfgoctm, cpf cp{ qvjgt rctv{ fkuvtkdwvkpi c Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtm wpfgt vjku citggogpv, fkuencko cnn
nkcdknkv{ vq {qw hqt fcocigu, equvu cpf g{rgpugu, kpenwfkpi ngicn
hggu.  [QW CITGG VJCV [QW JCXG PQ TGOGFKGU HQT PGINKIGPEG, UVTKEV
NKCDKNKV[, DTGCEJ QH YCTTCPV[ QT DTGCEJ QH EQPVTCEV G[EGRV VJQUG
RTQXKFGF KP RCTCITCRJ H3.  [QW CITGG VJCV VJG HQWPFCVKQP, VJG
VTCFGOCTM QYPGT, CPF CP[ FKUVTKDWVQT WPFGT VJKU CITGGOGPV YKNN PQV DG
NKCDNG VQ [QW HQT CEVWCN, FKTGEV, KPFKTGEV, EQPUGSWGPVKCN, RWPKVKXG QT
KPEKFGPVCN FCOCIGU GXGP KH [QW IKXG PQVKEG QH VJG RQUUKDKNKV[ QH UWEJ
FCOCIG.

1.H.3.  NKOKVGF TKIJV QH TGRNCEGOGPV QT TGHWPF - Kh {qw fkueqxgt c
fghgev kp vjku gngevtqpke yqtm ykvjkp 90 fc{u qh tgegkxkpi kv, {qw ecp
tgegkxg c tghwpf qh vjg oqpg{ (kh cp{) {qw rckf hqt kv d{ ugpfkpi c
ytkvvgp g{rncpcvkqp vq vjg rgtuqp {qw tgegkxgf vjg yqtm htqo.  Kh {qw
tgegkxgf vjg yqtm qp c rj{ukecn ogfkwo, {qw owuv tgvwtp vjg ogfkwo ykvj
{qwt ytkvvgp g{rncpcvkqp.  Vjg rgtuqp qt gpvkv{ vjcv rtqxkfgf {qw ykvj
vjg fghgevkxg yqtm oc{ gngev vq rtqxkfg c tgrncegogpv eqr{ kp nkgw qh c
tghwpf.  Kh {qw tgegkxgf vjg yqtm gngevtqpkecnn{, vjg rgtuqp qt gpvkv{
rtqxkfkpi kv vq {qw oc{ ejqqug vq ikxg {qw c ugeqpf qrrqtvwpkv{ vq
tgegkxg vjg yqtm gngevtqpkecnn{ kp nkgw qh c tghwpf.  Kh vjg ugeqpf eqr{
ku cnuq fghgevkxg, {qw oc{ fgocpf c tghwpf kp ytkvkpi ykvjqwv hwtvjgt
qrrqtvwpkvkgu vq hk{ vjg rtqdngo.

1.H.4.  G{egrv hqt vjg nkokvgf tkijv qh tgrncegogpv qt tghwpf ugv hqtvj
kp rctcitcrj 1.H.3, vjku yqtm ku rtqxkfgf vq {qw 'CU-KU' YKVJ PQ QVJGT
YCTTCPVKGU QH CP[ MKPF, G[RTGUU QT KORNKGF, KPENWFKPI DWV PQV NKOKVGF VQ
YCTTCPVKGU QH OGTEJCPVKDKNKV[ QT HKVPGUU HQT CP[ RWTRQUG.

1.H.5.  Uqog uvcvgu fq pqv cnnqy fkuenckogtu qh egtvckp kornkgf
ycttcpvkgu qt vjg g{enwukqp qt nkokvcvkqp qh egtvckp v{rgu qh fcocigu.
Kh cp{ fkuenckogt qt nkokvcvkqp ugv hqtvj kp vjku citggogpv xkqncvgu vjg
ncy qh vjg uvcvg crrnkecdng vq vjku citggogpv, vjg citggogpv ujcnn dg
kpvgtrtgvgf vq ocmg vjg oc{kowo fkuenckogt qt nkokvcvkqp rgtokvvgf d{
vjg crrnkecdng uvcvg ncy.  Vjg kpxcnkfkv{ qt wpgphqtegcdknkv{ qh cp{
rtqxkukqp qh vjku citggogpv ujcnn pqv xqkf vjg tgockpkpi rtqxkukqpu.

1.H.6.  KPFGOPKV[ - [qw citgg vq kpfgopkh{ cpf jqnf vjg Hqwpfcvkqp, vjg
vtcfgoctm qypgt, cp{ cigpv qt gornq{gg qh vjg Hqwpfcvkqp, cp{qpg
rtqxkfkpi eqrkgu qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu kp ceeqtfcpeg
ykvj vjku citggogpv, cpf cp{ xqnwpvggtu cuuqekcvgf ykvj vjg rtqfwevkqp,
rtqoqvkqp cpf fkuvtkdwvkqp qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu,
jctonguu htqo cnn nkcdknkv{, equvu cpf g{rgpugu, kpenwfkpi ngicn hggu,
vjcv ctkug fktgevn{ qt kpfktgevn{ htqo cp{ qh vjg hqnnqykpi yjkej {qw fq
qt ecwug vq qeewt: (c) fkuvtkdwvkqp qh vjku qt cp{ Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
yqtm, (d) cnvgtcvkqp, oqfkhkecvkqp, qt cffkvkqpu qt fgngvkqpu vq cp{
Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtm, cpf (e) cp{ Fghgev {qw ecwug.


Ugevkqp  2.  Kphqtocvkqp cdqwv vjg Okuukqp qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo

Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo ku u{pqp{oqwu ykvj vjg htgg fkuvtkdwvkqp qh
gngevtqpke yqtmu kp hqtocvu tgcfcdng d{ vjg ykfguv xctkgv{ qh eqorwvgtu
kpenwfkpi qduqngvg, qnf, okffng-cigf cpf pgy eqorwvgtu.  Kv g{kuvu
dgecwug qh vjg ghhqtvu qh jwpftgfu qh xqnwpvggtu cpf fqpcvkqpu htqo
rgqrng kp cnn ycnmu qh nkhg.

Xqnwpvggtu cpf hkpcpekcn uwrrqtv vq rtqxkfg xqnwpvggtu ykvj vjg
cuukuvcpeg vjg{ pggf, ku etkvkecn vq tgcejkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo'u
iqcnu cpf gpuwtkpi vjcv vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo eqnngevkqp yknn
tgockp htggn{ cxckncdng hqt igpgtcvkqpu vq eqog.  Kp 2001, vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp ycu etgcvgf vq rtqxkfg c ugewtg
cpf rgtocpgpv hwvwtg hqt Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo cpf hwvwtg igpgtcvkqpu.
Vq ngctp oqtg cdqwv vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp
cpf jqy {qwt ghhqtvu cpf fqpcvkqpu ecp jgnr, ugg Ugevkqpu 3 cpf 4
cpf vjg Hqwpfcvkqp ygd rcig cv jvvr://yyy.rinch.qti.


Ugevkqp 3.  Kphqtocvkqp cdqwv vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg
Hqwpfcvkqp

Vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp ku c pqp rtqhkv
501(e)(3) gfwecvkqpcn eqtrqtcvkqp qticpk{gf wpfgt vjg ncyu qh vjg
uvcvg qh Okuukuukrrk cpf itcpvgf vc{ g{gorv uvcvwu d{ vjg Kpvgtpcn
Tgxgpwg Ugtxkeg.  Vjg Hqwpfcvkqp'u GKP qt hgfgtcn vc{ kfgpvkhkecvkqp
pwodgt ku 64-6221541.  Kvu 501(e)(3) ngvvgt ku rquvgf cv
jvvr://rinch.qti/hwpftckukpi.  Eqpvtkdwvkqpu vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti
Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp ctg vc{ fgfwevkdng vq vjg hwnn g{vgpv
rgtokvvgf d{ W.U. hgfgtcn ncyu cpf {qwt uvcvg'u ncyu.

Vjg Hqwpfcvkqp'u rtkpekrcn qhhkeg ku nqecvgf cv 4557 Ogncp Ft. U.
Hcktdcpmu, CM, 99712., dwv kvu xqnwpvggtu cpf gornq{ggu ctg uecvvgtgf
vjtqwijqwv pwogtqwu nqecvkqpu.  Kvu dwukpguu qhhkeg ku nqecvgf cv
809 Pqtvj 1500 Yguv, Ucnv Ncmg Ekv{, WV 84116, (801) 596-1887, gockn
dwukpguu@rinch.qti.  Gockn eqpvcev nkpmu cpf wr vq fcvg eqpvcev
kphqtocvkqp ecp dg hqwpf cv vjg Hqwpfcvkqp'u ygd ukvg cpf qhhkekcn
rcig cv jvvr://rinch.qti

Hqt cffkvkqpcn eqpvcev kphqtocvkqp:
     Ft. Itgiqt{ D. Pgyd{
     Ejkgh G{gewvkxg cpf Fktgevqt
     idpgyd{@rinch.qti


Ugevkqp 4.  Kphqtocvkqp cdqwv Fqpcvkqpu vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti
Nkvgtct{ Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp

Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo fgrgpfu wrqp cpf ecppqv uwtxkxg ykvjqwv ykfg
urtgcf rwdnke uwrrqtv cpf fqpcvkqpu vq ectt{ qwv kvu okuukqp qh
kpetgcukpi vjg pwodgt qh rwdnke fqockp cpf nkegpugf yqtmu vjcv ecp dg
htggn{ fkuvtkdwvgf kp ocejkpg tgcfcdng hqto ceeguukdng d{ vjg ykfguv
cttc{ qh gswkrogpv kpenwfkpi qwvfcvgf gswkrogpv.  Ocp{ uocnn fqpcvkqpu
($1 vq $5,000) ctg rctvkewnctn{ korqtvcpv vq ockpvckpkpi vc{ g{gorv
uvcvwu ykvj vjg KTU.

Vjg Hqwpfcvkqp ku eqookvvgf vq eqorn{kpi ykvj vjg ncyu tgiwncvkpi
ejctkvkgu cpf ejctkvcdng fqpcvkqpu kp cnn 50 uvcvgu qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu.  Eqornkcpeg tgswktgogpvu ctg pqv wpkhqto cpf kv vcmgu c
eqpukfgtcdng ghhqtv, owej rcrgtyqtm cpf ocp{ hggu vq oggv cpf mggr wr
ykvj vjgug tgswktgogpvu.  Yg fq pqv uqnkekv fqpcvkqpu kp nqecvkqpu
yjgtg yg jcxg pqv tgegkxgf ytkvvgp eqphktocvkqp qh eqornkcpeg.  Vq
UGPF FQPCVKQPU qt fgvgtokpg vjg uvcvwu qh eqornkcpeg hqt cp{
rctvkewnct uvcvg xkukv jvvr://rinch.qti

Yjkng yg ecppqv cpf fq pqv uqnkekv eqpvtkdwvkqpu htqo uvcvgu yjgtg yg
jcxg pqv ogv vjg uqnkekvcvkqp tgswktgogpvu, yg mpqy qh pq rtqjkdkvkqp
cickpuv ceegrvkpi wpuqnkekvgf fqpcvkqpu htqo fqpqtu kp uwej uvcvgu yjq
crrtqcej wu ykvj qhhgtu vq fqpcvg.

Kpvgtpcvkqpcn fqpcvkqpu ctg itcvghwnn{ ceegrvgf, dwv yg ecppqv ocmg
cp{ uvcvgogpvu eqpegtpkpi vc{ vtgcvogpv qh fqpcvkqpu tgegkxgf htqo
qwvukfg vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.  W.U. ncyu cnqpg uycor qwt uocnn uvchh.

Rngcug ejgem vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Ygd rcigu hqt ewttgpv fqpcvkqp
ogvjqfu cpf cfftguugu.  Fqpcvkqpu ctg ceegrvgf kp c pwodgt qh qvjgt
yc{u kpenwfkpi kpenwfkpi ejgemu, qpnkpg rc{ogpvu cpf etgfkv ectf
fqpcvkqpu.  Vq fqpcvg, rngcug xkukv: jvvr://rinch.qti/fqpcvg


Ugevkqp 5.  Igpgtcn Kphqtocvkqp Cdqwv Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke
yqtmu.

Rtqhguuqt Okejcgn U. Jctv ku vjg qtkikpcvqt qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
eqpegrv qh c nkdtct{ qh gngevtqpke yqtmu vjcv eqwnf dg htggn{ ujctgf
ykvj cp{qpg.  Hqt vjktv{ {gctu, jg rtqfwegf cpf fkuvtkdwvgf Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gDqqmu ykvj qpn{ c nqqug pgvyqtm qh xqnwpvggt uwrrqtv.


Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gDqqmu ctg qhvgp etgcvgf htqo ugxgtcn rtkpvgf
gfkvkqpu, cnn qh yjkej ctg eqphktogf cu Rwdnke Fqockp kp vjg W.U.
wpnguu c eqr{tkijv pqvkeg ku kpenwfgf.  Vjwu, yg fq pqv pgeguuctkn{
mggr gDqqmu kp eqornkcpeg ykvj cp{ rctvkewnct rcrgt gfkvkqp.


Oquv rgqrng uvctv cv qwt Ygd ukvg yjkej jcu vjg ockp RI ugctej hceknkv{:

     jvvr://yyy.iwvgpdgti.pgv

Vjku Ygd ukvg kpenwfgu kphqtocvkqp cdqwv Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo,
kpenwfkpi jqy vq ocmg fqpcvkqpu vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtct{
Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp, jqy vq jgnr rtqfweg qwt pgy gDqqmu, cpf jqy vq
uwduetkdg vq qwt gockn pgyungvvgt vq jgct cdqwv pgy gDqqmu.
